1364|Weasel|Despite their small stature, weasels are skilled hunters. Nearly fearless in pursuit of food, they frequently kill creatures up to five times their own size. Their preferred tactic is to latch onto the back of their victim's neck and constrict with their jaws until the target dies. To keep themselves well fed, weasels kill more creatures than they need and stuff their victims into hollow logs or empty dens to eat later. Scholars have observed weasels, both in the wild and captivity, perform a bizarre behavior in front of their prey. They rush about unpredictably, throw themselves to the ground, wriggle into and out of burrows, and generally appear to behave entirely irrationally. In response, their prey becomes confused or seemingly hypnotized, which gives the weasel an opportunity to dash forward and strike a killing blow.
1614|Silverfish Swarm|It's uncommon for silverfish to congregate in sufficient numbers to constitute a swarm, but forgotten libraries or similar out-of-the-way places might harbor a multitude of the voracious pests.
1676|Khefak Scuttler|These small creatures are ubiquitous vermin found across much of Akiton.
1764|Animated Blades|This creature did not include a description.
1771|Beaver|A typical beaver can grow up to 4 feet long and weigh up to 65 pounds.
2701|Ether Sprite|The excitable sprites of the Ether Court prefer to frolic, drink, insult each other, and perform improv comedy.
2730|Phantom Raven|This creature did not include a description.
2750|Phantasmal Minion|Elite
2852|Flash Beetle|These 3-foot-long insects boast a pair of glowing organs on the back of the abdomen that give off bright light and that continue to glow for days, even after the creature's death. Flash beetles are commonly herded and harvested by miners and spelunkers, as their glow is considered safer than torches and less expensive than lamps. Denizens of the Darklands often domesticate and train these insects, using them as pets, livestock, or caging them to use as organic sources of light in areas frequented by visitors unaccustomed to the darkness.
2875|Giant Centipede|Most giant centipedes (known as sewer centipedes when found in cities) nest in small groups but hunt alone when they seek out food. Attempts to domesticate giant centipedes for use as guardians or pets generally end poorly, but some communities of goblins, kobolds, and mitflits have developed effective methods of utilizing these vermin as guardians. Other groups roast and eat centipedes, often with pungent peppers as a savory delicacy, although care must be taken in preparing the meal to avoid tainting the flesh with the creature's venom.
2885|Crawling Hand|A crawling hand formed from the appendage of a Medium creature is quick and agile, skittering in the shadows until it can strike its prey.
2924|Guard Dog|The typical guard dog is loyal and beloved by many communities. Often adored as pets, they excel as protectors and trackers, and can be fearless when defending a beloved master or family member. The statistics presented below work well for numerous breeds of dog ranging from 20 to 50 pounds in weight. Wild dogs can also use these statistics, but their untamed nature makes them far more unpredictable. Feral canines are perhaps even more dangerous, for unlike their wild cousins, feral dogs often lack the instinctual fear of humanity that stops wild creatures from interacting with people.
3044|Halfling Street Watcher|Halflings' keen sight makes them excellent street watchers. Though the job rarely calls for fighting, most street watchers cover themselves head to ankle in whatever armor and weapons they manage to get their hands on.
3162|Giant Rat|Giant rats are enormous versions of the common vermin. They are typically found in abundant numbers, but since they cannot fit in the nooks where mundane rats typically hide, they are much easier to locate and exterminate. They mostly live in sewers where they can scavenge from the streets above, but some families of giant rats live in more remote locations, such as dank caves, forests or hills. Rats are incredibly adept survivors and can be found nearly anywhere in the world, though they tend to favor temperate or warm climates as opposed to cold regions.
3193|Skeleton Guard|The most common skeletal minions are mere guardians.
3200|Viper|Each member of this family of venomous snakes has long, hinged fangs that inject potent venom into their prey. Different vipers inject different types of venom, which might result in paralysis, extreme pain and swelling, blood clotting, or even the sudden stopping of the victim's heart.
3210|Sprite|Common sprites, sometimes called firefly sprites, are primeval guardians that latch onto a person, place, or object and defend it for their own inscrutable reasons. Their dispositions vary from kind to spiteful, but all sprites have a capricious streak. Being only about 9 inches tall, they are wary of animals that might hunt them, particularly house cats, and prefer flight to a fight. On the other hand, sprites are incredibly curious about all forms of magic and heedlessly gather around ley line nexuses or other places of power.
2451|Oaksteward Enforcer|This creature did not include a description.
1883|Mummified Cat|Some of the wealthy have their favored pets mummified or wish to use the animal's fractured memories but strong instincts and natural weapons to turn them into formidable tomb guardians. No other animal was so trusted in the afterlife as felines, who were almost without exception buried alongside deceased pharaohs. Though small in stature, a clowder of mummified cats has ended the life of many a would-be tomb robber.
1899|Wolf Skeleton|Without the burden of flesh, skeletal wolves charge across the battlefield with terrifying speed.
1918|Zombie Snake|At around 5 feet long, this massive, rotting serpent lacks potent venom, but its bite still injects putrid fluid that can cause infection.
1924|Clockwork Hunter|Tasks like patrolling the sewers for vermin are mundane, perfect for the clockwork hunter. Its hound-like appearance mimics one of humanity's trustiest hunting companions—with a few choice modifications, of course. Few hunting dogs, for example, sport sturdy metal plating and an integrated crossbow bolt launcher. Over time, clockwork makers have unofficially adopted a common model for the hunter, making it fairly easy to find spare parts or compatible accessory modules.
1998|Juvenile Boar|This creature did not include a description.
2033|Necromunculus|A necromunculus is a tiny 
2077|Whalesteed|Whalesteeds were first tamed in the Shackles as part of an ambush between rival pirate captains. Whalesteed riders are still an unusual sight, as learning to master the skill takes years of training.
2203|Thylacine|A thylacine can be easily mistaken for a dog or jackal, but the defining stripes on their gold-hued backs and unusually wide gaping jaws negate this perception in close encounters. A thylacine is quite vocal, and uses a combination of growls, hisses, and gaping threat-yawns when threatened. An adult thylacine stands 2 feet tall at the shoulder, is 4 feet long (not counting an additional 2 feet of tail) and weighs roughly 50 pounds.The thylacine is a marsupial carnivore. This nocturnal predator typically hunts alone, only occasionally forming small packs. Because of their odd appearance, thylacines have a far harsher reputation than they probably should, playing a sort of bogeyman role in farming communities.
2281|Stag Lord Bandit|This creature did not include a description.
428|Vine Lasher|What first appears to be a simple shrub suddenly stirs to life.
561|Badger|The typical badger has dark, brownish-gray fur highlighted with white markings, particularly on the head, giving it a striped mask of fur around its eyes. A threatened badger can swiftly become a ferocious combatant that typically fights until slain.
672|Giant Maggot|Giant flies lay their eggs on the bodies of larger monsters or livestock. When they hatch, these eggs release squirming maggots the size of human children, ravenous young who voraciously consume any flesh in the immediate vicinity—typically starting with the body upon which they were born.
744|Blue-Ringed Octopus|While relatively small, the blue-ringed octopus is particularly venomous for its size.
785|Stingray|Found in salt or fresh water, stingrays are normally passive creatures, but when threatened or cornered, they lash out with their tails to lance foes with their toxic stingers. Stingrays often bury themselves in mud, sand, or sea grass, and unfortunately for those wading in shallow waters, stepping on an unseen stingray is a surefire way to receive a painful sting.
819|Vampire Squid|Vampire squid are neither undead nor blood drinkers. Their name is instead inspired by their red eyes and the dark, cloak-like webbing between their arms. Living in the lightless depths of the ocean, the vampire squid can eject a cloud of bioluminescent mucus that nauseates predators.
1143|Earth Wisp|Earth wisps are rolling spheres of rock, mud, and leaves, perpetually humming with low, rumbling energy. They're timid and aloof, but fiercely loyal to those they know and trust.
1144|Fire Wisp|Fire wisps are sizzling spheres of flame and ash, perpetually crackling and shimmering with heat. They're carefree, boisterous, and quick to action— sometimes recklessly so.
1145|Water Wisp|Water wisps are swimming spheres of foam and water, perpetually humming with a wash of soft sounds. They're gentle, nurturing, and quick to help anyone in need.
1205|Kangaroo|Kangaroos are marsupials distinguished by long faces, large ears, powerful back legs and tails, and a distinctive hopping gait. These generally placid herbivores are shy of other creatures, preferring to live in open grasslands where their keen ears and eyes can spot danger approaching from a distance.
1218|Vine Leshy|Irrepressible vine leshys love to explore and collect tales to share. They're curious without being reckless. Other cultures interest them greatly, and they can build friendships quickly as they trade stories with traveling companions. They also feel a pull toward protection, much like other leshys. Vine leshys, though, tend to protect a ward for only a brief period of danger before the leshy's wanderlust drives them onward into the unknown.
1273|Ringhorn Ram|Ringhorn rams, named for the massive, curving spirals protruding from their heads, travel the plains. Though these rams tend to be slightly more playful and less vindictive than those in the mountains, they are no less stubborn or hardy.
1612|Scrit|Scrits are short, spindly gremlins with gray or beige leathery skin and a coat of smeared ink on their fingers. They make themselves the nightmare of many scribes and librarians, as they delight in nothing more than destroying books, scrolls, artwork, and other records or writing. The oils on a scrit's skin smears ink and renders text—even magical writing— completely illegible. Once they have smeared every page of a book, scrits devour them whole, absorbing the contents the book used to hold. After eating books they find stupid or funny, scrits hold skits for other gremlins which mock the mortal authors for the amusement of the other fey.
1615|Giant Silverfish|Some silverfish can grow as large as a pig, particularly in magic colleges and ancient vault-libraries, where they terrify hapless students and destroy precious tomes. Popular academic lore attributes their unusual size to a steady diet of spellbooks.
1616|Spellskein|Magic can be used for many purposes—creating objects, summoning creatures, and manipulating the elements. Usually when a ritual is cast, the outcome is reliable and predictable, but sometimes magic takes unexpected turns and a spell's energy lands in unintended places.
1756|Groplit|The groplit is a squat little animal shaped like a water droplet, with a bulbous rear end and an eel-like face that juts from a narrow skull. Its rear legs are more muscular than those in front, which it primarily uses for balance, giving it the gait and appearance of a toad. Groplits are best known for their greasy skin and queasy hygienic habits: they spend most of each day using their two long tongues to slurp up their own oily excretions or similarly viscous discharge originating from plants or other animals. Although they prefer to dwell in northern wetlands, fens, and moist caves, groplits can thrive in all but the most barren environments. They'll eat just about anything, though they tend to prefer small, crunchy animals like bugs and birds.
2610|Anarchic Living Graffiti|This creature did not include a description.
2668|Wood Wisp|Like other wisps, wood wisps roam their plane and attune to other wisps, wandering with them in symphonies. Because of their willingness to bond, wood wisps appear outside their home plane more than other wood elementals, though they're still relatively rare compared to other wisps. 
2725|Thatchling|The typical thatchling appears as a humanoid bundle of dry grass and twigs, held together by coils of what looks like glowing blue hair. These minor undead can't form bodies larger than those of a small human child.
2762|Animated Kite|An animated kite is perfect for spying, allowing observation from a great distance, although many are treated more like pets. The kite itself is a simple handcraft, easily created and destroyed, made of enchanted paper stretched over a fine bamboo frame. More advanced kites can be decorated with a variety of runes that allow the enchanter to see or hear from a distance.
2838|Azarketi Crab Catcher|The average azarketi citizen in Absalom makes a living fishing or catching crabs.
2905|Ort (Drudge Devil)|These shapeless masses of quivering flesh are the least of devilkind. Pathetic creatures from Hell's first layer, orts roam alongside damned and suffering souls. Nessaris can combine the essence of a mob of orts to concentrate their collective wickedness within a single form, granting it an infernal sentience and transforming it into a more powerful devil (see the nessari's Shape Devils ability). 
2926|Bottlenose Dolphin|The bottlenose dolphin is the most common and widespread species of dolphin. They are social predators who hunt shallow seas and rivers in large family groups called pods. Sailors are fond of bottlenose dolphins and frequently tell of how they've saved drowning mariners or protected crew from sharks with blows from their powerful snouts.
3032|Pugwampi|Mean, dog-faced, and craven, pugwampis take disproportionate enjoyment from the accidents and missteps of other creatures— something that happens often due to the supernatural aura of ill fortune these gremlins project. They enjoy preparing pranks involving spikes, excrement, pits full of spiders, and similar twisted torments. Pugwampis are somewhat deaf and thus often yell loudly to each other when not hiding. Many pugwampis worship 
3057|Riding Pony|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3061|Hryngar Sharpshooter|Hryngar sharpshooters serve both as ranged support for caravans and as snipers posted on guard towers overlooking quarries and other areas where workers toil away the hours. Hryngar sharpshooters also specialize in nonlethal methods of ranged combat—tactics they are often called upon to use when tracking down derelict debtors or those attempting to flee from their contractual obligations.
3274|Stonefish|Stonefish use their superior camouflage to lie in wait and devour small prey, becoming indistinguishable from the reefs they call home. Larger creatures are also at risk, although mostly through accidental contact with the stonefish's spines and their agonizing venom.
2313|Jewel|Nethys Note
2408|Fleshforged Skinskitter|These elusive oddments resemble discarded hides of butchered animals and fleshwarping experiments, floating like so much meaty detritus in the bloody filth of Ecanus's charnel-clogged sewers. Skinskitters, named for their fluid, erratic movements, scavenge the city for leavings of fleshy waste. They prefer discreet, non-violent ways of procuring these biological materials and shy from combat, seemingly possessed of a nervous temperament. Nexian fleshforgers quip this is entirely reasonable, as skinskitters are little more than nervous systems wrapped in dying skin. Nexian guards who actually have to hunt these fleshforged pests aren't quite as jocular; confronted by the oddly childlike pleas of these cornered puddles of flesh, hair, and eyes, many recruits simply choose to leave the city watch.
2445|Temagyr|Temagyrs embody the fear of nocturnal hunters—predators that stalk through the dark of night and attack when their prey is most vulnerable. Able to blend in with and step between shadows to surprise victims, temagyrs delight in ambush tactics.
1880|Shadern|Goblin
1896|Scorned Hound|Scorned hounds rise from the most devoted dogs. They're incredibly possessive of their owners, allowing no living beings to approach and refusing to be parted.
2000|Violet|This creature did not include a description.
2030|Scrabbling Ribcage|The ribs of a scrabbling ribcage are connected to either a sternum or vertebral column, but not both, allowing the ribs to function as legs.
2042|Zombie Horse|This creature did not include a description.
2074|Sarkorian Wolf|To survive living in the Worldwound, Sarkorian wolves developed defenses against the 
2180|Darkmantle|These dark blue or black mollusk-like creatures have a similar appearance to an octopus, save that they have only six tentacles, all of which are connected by a thick leathery shroud. While darkmantle aren't a particularly good climber, they excel at clinging and can clutch onto a cave roof for days, patiently waiting to ambush any prey that walks below them with a disorienting blob of darkness. When clinging to a cave roof, and with their bulbous red eyes closed down to squints, darkmantles in ambush look similar to stalactites. Their preferred hunting method works best on creatures without darkvision, so they frequent ruins aboveground or shallow caves not far from the outside world. When darkmantles sense prey, they shed darkness down onto their prey before dropping away from the ceiling to flap quickly down to their victim, whereupon these beasts clutch and squeeze with their thick, muscular tentacles. Despite the shape of darkmantles, their bodies's texture is more like thick leather or even rubber—they can't cause damage with their spike-shaped bodies by dropping down onto other creatures.
2201|Elk|Elk are exceptionally adaptable survivors. Most breeds stand between 3 and 5 feet tall and weigh between 350 and 550 pounds.
93|Deep Gnome Scout|Deep gnome scouts patrol the tunnels that lead into their settlements. Some scout alone to make the most of their stealth, but others form groups for the sake of safety.
97|Quasit|Unlike other demons, quasits are formed when a mortal spellcaster sheds a portion of their own sinful soul to create a familiar or companion. When these quasits outlive their creators, they become free willed and seek methods of returning to the Abyss, a task that requires pledging servitude to more powerful demons, so many quasits instead opt to remain on the Material Plane to promote evil and hope for chance and luck to someday provide them with a method of reaching the Abyss on their own.
165|Drow Fighter|Drow fighters train to master techniques that inflict deep, bleeding wounds and use poisoned crossbow bolts to exhaust enemies.
390|Grig|Grigs are kindly musicians of the fey, often getting themselves into trouble due to their penchant for confronting evil well beyond their ability to vanquish. Even so, they fight bravely and with great cunning, using their magic and ranged sonic attacks while flying and leaping using their wings and powerful cricket-like lower torsos to stay out of reach.
437|Hellcrown|The life of a Hellknight is bloody, brutal, and often short. Many who perish in service to a Hellknight order are glad to rest after having served their masters so faithfully, but others seek to continue their work even in death. When a Hellknight is decapitated, the ghostly undead known as a hellcrown is an occasional result. Consumed by the desire to bring about order by inflicting cruelty, hellcrowns haunt battlefields and abandoned castles, slaying all they encounter. A strange fusion of spirit and steel, a hellcrown has no corporeal form by itself, but instead inhabits the helmet it so proudly wore in life. Dangling from the helmet like a shroud is a shadow of the former Hellknight’s spine, adding to the creature’s terrifyingly gruesome appearance. Hellknights regard hellcrowns with a mixture of disgust and respect, considering the individuals who transform into these floating undead to have been resolute in purpose but weak in body.
575|Brownie|Brownies make their homes in the trunks of hollow trees, small earthy burrows, and even under porches or within the crawl spaces of farmhouses. Often attired in clothes that appear to be made of plants or leaves, brownies wear belts lined with pouches and tools. Whatever language they choose to speak is often is riddled with odd pronunciations and colloquialisms. Their manner of speaking might call upon turns of phrase that are decades or even centuries out of vogue, for example, or they might mix up their metaphors in strange ways. It almost seems as if brownies adopt these quirky ways of speaking intentionally—certainly they do not react favorably to corrections to their chatter. There's often no swifter way to annoy a brownie than to try to correct its grammar. Brownies stand barely 2 feet tall and weigh about 20 pounds.
585|Giant Cockroach|Cockroaches are communal creatures, rarely setting out on their own unless they are searching for food. If an adventurer encounters a single giant cockroach while exploring, they had best take precautions against others, as there is likely an entire colony nearby.
659|Dust Mephit|Whining and self-important creatures, dust mephits are known for their tendency to pronounce doom and gloom at every opportunity, lamenting every insignificant and minor difficulty as though it were an insurmountable obstacle and making themselves out to be heroes for struggling valiantly against their cruel fates. They tend to be thin and gaunt, with dusky brown and gray skin and wings.
660|Ice Mephit|Though capable of the same depths of cruelty as their fire mephit kin, ice mephits carry theirs out in a more calculating way. Unlike most mephits, these pale blue mephits prefer solitude to company. Lacking in empathy, they are known for their callousness, and have a reputation for brutal honesty. They also have few moral qualms about acting selfishly and exploiting weakness for their own gain, should the chance arise.
662|Steam Mephit|These brash and arrogant creatures are among the more energetic mephits. They are quick to nominate themselves the leaders of any group, barking out orders in shrill, high-pitched voices and insisting on having everything done their way. Even when they aren't bossing others around, the constant hiss of steam escaping from their pores ensures that there is never a quiet moment.
669|Fetchling Scout|The people known today as fetchlings are a distinct ancestry descended from generations of humans who became trapped ages ago on the 
673|Giant Fly|This pony-sized fly's twitching limbs seem to never stop moving as it constantly cleans itself and scoops anything edible into its mouthparts. While primarily carrion eaters, giant flies sometimes prey on livestock or other animals too slow to get away.
693|Grippli Scout|Grippli scouts typically keep watch on the outskirts of grippli settlements.
716|Sunflower Leshy|Sunflower leshys are the ambassadors and social leaders of their kind. Their petals radiate from their heads in various hues with a serrated, leafy, beard-like ruff. When particularly excited, their eyes and petals glow with collected sunlight, and when they become depressed or saddened, their usually vibrant coloration grows correspondingly muted. These shifts in coloration are echoed in sunflower leshy art, which can lead to unexpected color palettes for artworks. For example, a human artist might illustrate Hell as a place of glowing lava and flickering flames, drawing upon many vibrant colors, but to a sunflower leshy, the only proper way to depict a place like Hell is in morose grays, blacks, and whites.
741|Nixie|These aquatic fey often guard ponds, rivers, lakes, and springs, protecting their bucolic homes from the advances of predators and careless humanoids alike. Nixies tend to be reclusive and try to keep their presence hidden from humanoids, hoping trespassers won't give them cause to act. Stories of minor miracles granted by nixies to those they befriend encourage humanoids to seek out these reclusive fey, and ironically make it even more unlikely for a nixie to grant such a boon. On the other hand, if someone approaches a nixie with respect, or even better, a positive attitude that displays just the right amount of humility and easygoing openness, a nixie is far more likely to respond positively to any requests for aid. Often a nixie will ask those who seek their assistance to perform a task for them first; such requests can be minor acts of entertainment (such as telling a rousing story or performing a requested song), but in other cases the nixie might need more significant aid, such as driving off an unwanted local predator or investigating the source of pollution near their home.
745|Reef Octopus|The common reef octopus is a risky but valuable catch for coastal fishers.
750|Amoeba Swarm|An amoeba swarm consists of thousands of individual single-celled organisms held together by acrid-smelling slime. As ravenous as they are mindless, amoeba swarms use no tactics.
751|Giant Amoeba|These blobs of nearly transparent protoplasm are identical in form and behavior to the microscopic creatures from which they have evolved, except their outlandish size makes them all the more dangerous. Unlike slimes, puddings, and other deadly oozes, giant amoebas have an outer membrane that contains their internal structures, making them more susceptible to slashing weapons than their amorphous kin. However, this membrane is also extremely flexible and permeable, allowing them to surround prey and absorb it, suffocating and slowly digesting it in the amoeba's acidic fluids.
759|Ifrit|Ifrits' blood blazes with elemental fire. Most ifrits are second-class citizens who serve under the iron heel of the 
760|Oread|Elemental earth laces through the bones of oreads, who appear similar to stone statues of their mortal ancestry, with delicate crystals in place of hair, fur, or scales. Oreads are stoic and slow to plan but are of steadfast resolve and unwavering in their convictions.
761|Suli|Because their genie forebears are native to the 
763|Undine|Undines are infused with elemental water—the churning power of the briny deep flows through them. These planar scions are often athletic and lithe, but they are easily distracted by auditory sensations because of how much louder and clearer sound rings above the waves.
805|Skulk|The cowardly and lazy skulks live on the fringes of organized societies and steal from others without a second thought. Even murder is merely another necessity, and they think nothing of creeping into a house, dispatching the residents, and taking what they want.
809|Giant Solifugid|The smallest of giant solifugids are still large enough to harry desert traders and their mounts.
847|Augur|These spherical knots of sinewy muscle, serrated blades, and bloody metal are the most common velstracs on the 
855|Void Zombie|A void zombie arises when a humanoid dies from an 
1037|Morlock Scavenger|The morlock scavenger is a lankier, smaller version of a typical morlock. Their stature allows them to wriggle into areas other morlocks can't access.
1055|Silvanshee (Cat Agathion)|Silvanshees are a stealthy and extremely inquisitive contingent of agathions who gather information about the mortal world for other agathions. While they love to explore the 
1063|Animated Silverware Swarm|Nobles are known to pay great amounts to animate their silverware, both for ease in cleaning and to serve as novelties during dinner parties.
1069|Shaukeen|Perhaps the most perverse asuras of them all, shaukeens particularly delight in causing the downfall of those who give them succor, shelter, and most of all, schooling. Many a teacher has come across a shaukeen disguised as a small child of exceptional talents or curiosity and taken them under their wing, only to be beguiled into ruin. This diminutive asura's cleverness is disproportionate to their size; they ask probing questions and coax their prey into decisions that lead to heresy, furthering the collapse of order and decency. When the world turns on the shaukeen's mentor, the asura is gone—but not very far, for they love hiding unseen and watching the torment and destruction of their mentors.
1090|Camel|For generations untold, nomads and traders have relied on sure-footed camels to cross the harsh deserts and trackless wastes around the world. Thriving where other animals wither and perish, camels are well-adapted to their homes with tough skin and the ability to store nutrients within their bodies. Properly cared for, these “ships of the desert” can trek for weeks between oases without trouble.
1102|Coral Capuchin|A coral capuchin resembles a hairless pink monkey with large eyes and batlike wings. Something of a tropical nuisance, these amphibious creatures follow trade ships, hoping to filch small valuables they can take home or perhaps find a sailor they can befriend to secure a regular supply of food.
1156|Flumph|Even among the numerous types of tentacled aberrations populating the lands of Golarion, flumphs are an anomaly. Unlike most other aberrations, flumphs' monstrous appearance belies their true nature as gentle, good-natured creatures whose self-imposed duty is to bolster the defenses of worlds across the multiverse against onslaught from the cosmic horrors of the Dark Tapestry between the stars.
1179|Fuath|Despite their small size, fuaths are shipwreckers incarnate. In the dark of night, these gremlins sever ratlines, slash sails, smash sextants, and soil provisions. Once the ship founders, the fuaths return to indulge their craving for land-raised flesh. While fuaths prefer to take their prey asleep, they save a terrible doom for sailors who attack them, surrounding the mariners' faces in magically congealed water to drown them where they stand.
1180|Grioth Scout|The first grioths encountered on a new world are scouts. Typically traveling the vastness of space via one-way portals from their home worlds, grioth scouts never expect to see their homes again, as grioth leadership ensures true devotion to the colonization effort by stranding them on new worlds.
1201|Shikigami|Shikigami are the least powerful of all kami and the most common. Unlike most other kami, which are bound to their wards by a more powerful spirit or deity, shikigami are minor spirits that even mortal practitioners can sometimes bind into a tiny paper form and task with guarding small works, such as garden statues and vases. Landowners delight in having shikigami protect their gardens, whether they paid a wandering spellcaster to entreat the shikigami or simply had the fortune of another spirit assigning a shikigami to their land. Travelers who come across a shikigami-graced milestone or waypost believe that such encounters are good omens for the journey ahead.
1280|Esipil|Among the least of the sahkils, esipils delight in spreading fears and uncertainty among people who live with animals that could turn on them. They generally appear to their prey as some benign creature such as a domesticated dog or cat, but once they gain trust and get their victims close, they transform into a terrifying creature that looks part dog and part worm with tendrils of viscera that the creature uses as both a tongue and a weapon.
1286|Samsaran Anchorite|A unique connection to the cycle of life and death defines the mortal lives of samsarans. With a tendency toward reclusiveness, samsarans have delicate builds, enigmatic and pupilless eyes, and blood as clear as water. When a samsaran dies, their body vanishes and their soul instantly reincarnates into a newborn child elsewhere on the same plane: usually another samsaran, but occasionally a humanoid of a different ancestry.
1311|Giant Skunk|Giant skunks thrive in places where their larger size and more potent musk allow them to fend off predators their smaller cousins can't. With larger bodies come more powerful appetites, and giant skunks tend to be aggressive and territorial.
1325|Squirrel Swarm|Descending with a shriek, a swarm of squirrels is a menace to foes, crawling in and out of pockets and clothing, biting and scratching as it goes. Though squirrels are usually independent, they might form into swarms when cornered or if a predator creates enough of a recurring threat that the little creatures need to gang up.
1327|Stheno Harpist|With living snakes for hair, sthenos, who are descended from 
1363|Wayang Whisperblade|In hushed tones, superstitious people tell their children stories of wayangs— living shadows who come out at night to eat misbehaving children. Mostly, these stories are just fictions of fearful minds, but it's true that wayangs were originally creatures of shadow, straddling the edge between light and darkness.
1372|Wyrwood Sneak|Wyrwood sneaks specialize in moving unseen behind enemy lines, performing reconnaissance and quietly eliminating threats.
1374|Yzobu|Yzobus are herd beasts common across northern plains and mountains, resembling a cross between a steer, a sturdy horse, and a yak. They most notably feature a pungent stench caused by bodily secretions building up within their thick, shaggy pelts—a stench so strong that yzobu herds can often be smelled before they appear. Territorial and aggressive, yzobus often attack other creatures on sight. When threatened, a herd launches into a stampede, trampling any in their path and goring survivors with their distinctive horns.
1427|Biloko Warrior|Bilokos prefer to move in small, stealthy packs through dark, isolated sections of the forest. When a band of bilokos finds a suitable hunting ground, they claim the area exclusively, digging pit traps, crafting snares from vines, and building blinds high in trees where they can lie in ambush.
1436|Kaava Stalker|Kaava hunting parties can number in the dozens, although they blend easily into the forest and cover all traces of their passage. While community elders assign various tasks to hunting parties, such as recovering food or deterring intruders, the parties are expected to accomplish these tasks as they see fit.
1606|Anadi Seeker|Anadi seekers are knowledge seekers who often brave the outside world.
1758|Loblobi|In the 
2608|Heldin Ulgincamp|This creature did not include a description.
2617|Despairing Pall|Despairing palls are small, dark clouds that float aimlessly through the 
2644|Metal Scamp|The capricious and destructive metal scamps are self-appointed forces of entropy, taking great pleasure in indiscriminately wrecking everything around them, sometimes even to their own detriment. Metal scamps have a severe appearance, with pointed facial features and angular limbs, and their skin can be the color of any metal, often heavily oxidized as if by years of exposure to the elements.
2658|Talos|The geniekin called taloses descend primarily from 
2659|Dewdrop Jelly|Dewdrop jellies are small water elementals resembling jellyfish made of gelatinous bubbles. They typically travel in small schools, floating through the air or swimming through the endless seas of their home plane. When threatened, the jellies discorporate into a thin, vaporous mist, reconstituting into their bubble shape only after the danger has passed. Their clever elusiveness makes them hard to find, leading some to claim that dewdrop jellies are mythical flights of fancy told to entertain children.
2669|Vegetable Lamb|Vegetable lambs are gaining popularity as the first elemental to be summoned by spellcasters in training, as they're docile until provoked and easy to control. Casters must take care, however, to not let them germinate in the 
2686|Ardande|Ardandes are geniekin whose elemental birthright ties them to the 
2721|Noppera-Bo Trickster|These noppera-bos have mastered the art of disguise.
2744|Clockwork Serpent Spy|This creature did not include a description.
2814|Cassisian (Archive Angel)|The weakest of angels, cassisians usually serve as lackey messengers for more powerful angels or as spiritual guides for mortals. Despite their limited intellect, cassisians have a knack for precise recollection, particularly with scripture. Most cassisians are formed from the souls of trustworthy mortals, but some arise from fragments of greater angels destroyed in service to the celestial realms.
2832|Zoaem (Ring Archon)|These endlessly curious archons are formed from spinning wheels of golden light given corporeal shape. They serve as lookouts and mobile support troops for the archon legions, at times uniting to form powerful warriors of light called gestalts. Larger collectives of zoaems can even temporarily fuse into greater archons, approaching the power of the first zoaem, which broke itself apart to serve 
2848|Vampire Bat Swarm|Although the typical vampire bat has a wingspan of 7 inches and doesn't pose a significant threat to larger prey alone (and indeed, these blood-drinkers can feed without their sleeping victims ever noticing), some unusually aggressive species of these bats hunt in deadly swarms. A churning cloud of vampire bats is much more dangerous than the sum of its individual parts and is capable of inflicting an overwhelming number of bleeding wounds in a frighteningly short span of time.
2856|Boggard Scout|Often tasked with patrolling the borders of their lands, boggard scouts learn to speak another language (typically 
2862|Caligni Dancer|Caligni dancers serve as intermediaries between caligni factions, carrying messages and negotiating deals between the notoriously independent groups. Although physically fragile, the dancers serve an important role within caligni society and are rarely seen without guards.
2915|Velociraptor|A smaller cousin of the deinonychus, the velociraptor is a swift, cunning pack hunter. It has no fear of larger creatures, and a group of these dinosaurs won't hesitate to attack prey the size of a horse. They have manes of feathery plumage that extend down their backs and along the sides of their arms, legs, and tail, while their underbellies and flanks are scaly. These feathers allow them to blend into their natural terrain with ease, but when startled, a velociraptor can puff and frill this plumage to expose brighter colors normally covered by the longer feathers. A typical velociraptor is 1-1/2 feet tall, 7 feet long, and weighs 35 pounds.
2987|Fire Scamp|Although arguably quite friendly, fire scamps are considered far more dangerous than their kin. They delight in fire and playing pranks on everyone they befriend. Even given time to understand others' dislike of fire, most fire scamps enjoy the feel of flames enough to constantly test their limits. Compared to the nations of other scamps, the nations on the 
2988|Water Scamp|Water scamps are marked apart from other scamps by sleek fur that traps a layer of water next to their skin. Although they can fly like their kin and conjure enough water to never dry out, water scamps leave the water only when they must. Although air-breathing scholars consider these scamps quiet and rather skittish, underwater civilizations find their exuberance and playfulness can be overwhelming.
3028|Goblin Dog|Goblins' eponymous pets aren't true canines at all but rather large, blunt-nosed rodents with thin bodies and long legs. Often as cowardly as they are ugly, goblin dogs prefer to lurk behind bushes or in deep shadows, only pouncing upon lone or wounded prey. Goblin dogs frequently roam in packs, but they are likely to flee from a fight if injured, even if it means abandoning their packmates.
3058|Riding Horse|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3059|War Pony|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3062|Hryngar Bombardier|Hryngar chemists have a knack for creating alchemical grenades. Their traditions often motivate them to constantly experiment and innovate, though the hostile nature of their environs tends to focus these innovations on weapons or other tools of war. Hryngar bombardiers eagerly steal notes and secrets from their underlings, pushing their students to cut corners to produce results while gleefully pillaging the credit and profits. For those hryngar bombardiers who find themselves pressed into combat service, each thrown grenade represents a new opportunity to observe the  suffering they inflict, before eagerly incorporating that data into their next experiment or innovation to create an even more terrible tool of torment.
3065|Hyena|Hyenas are cunning, powerfully built carnivores that bear a heavy resemblance to dogs and other canines, though they are not themselves canines. Though all hyenas are often maligned as cowardly carrion eaters, their tactics depend on their specific breed: spotted hyenas are active pack hunters that kill most of their prey themselves, while striped and brown hyenas are more likely to be loners and scavengers. Their jaws are exceptionally powerful, allowing hyenas to seize a victim and pull it to the rest of the pack.
3097|Merfolk Warrior|Merfolk warriors form the bulk of the militias of their vast underwater realms and meet potential aggressors head-on with uncompromising force.
3111|Naiad|Naiads protect streams, ponds, springs, and other natural bodies of fresh water. While most naiads lead solitary lives close to their chosen home, sometimes they congregate in coven-like groups where river tributaries meet, performing great magic and blessing the waters of the land. Because naiads' bonds to their bodies of water permit more flexibility, they are the nymphs most likely to interact with humanoids—and even visit their settlements on occasion. Unlike other nymphs, naiads occasionally become adventurers, especially when dark forces seek to despoil nature or otherwise threaten the land, joining forces with others to prevent the corruption of the natural world.
3147|Nosoi|A nosoi resembles a whippoorwill, sparrow, or other small bird wearing a heavy leather plague doctor's mask. They are the clerks, messengers, and scribes of the 
3154|Cythnigot (Spore Qlippoth)|The cythnigot is a foul fungal parasite that grows and thrives in the corpses of small creatures. It wears these bodies like a suit, but also adjusts and tailors the fleshy covering to fit its needs, and the body ends up looking as alien as anything else spawned from the Chthonian depths. The cythnigot's most identifying feature is the long stalk of fungal material that extends from creature's body, ending in a surprisingly strong set of fanged jaws.
3160|Raktavarna|Raktavarnas are simple rakshasa incarnations of betrayal and assassination, often existing to test the mettle of those who were treacherous or poisonous in a previous life. They typically appear as a snake with blood-red eyes and oversized fangs, though they just as often appear in the guise of a sword or a piece of jewelry.
3163|Rat Swarm|A swarm of rats can cause total chaos within a household or business. Contracting putrid plague is all the easier when dozens of these agitated or hungry vermin gather to bite victims en masse, making rat-hunting a viable career in many parts of the world as desperate townspeople seek relief from the disease's spread.
3201|Python|This nonvenomous family of snakes is rarely a threat to anything but small mammals and birds, hunting by coiling around prey and crushing victims with their powerful muscles. Nonetheless, larger pythons can be dangerous due to their strength. Herpetologists sometimes keep pythons as pets.
3241|Wolf|Wolves live and hunt in packs, which, contrary to popular belief, are not led by the strongest in the group, but typically consist of a mated pair, their pups, and juvenile offspring from previous mating seasons. Offspring generally leave their parents' pack upon reaching maturity, at which point they seek out mates of their own to form their own packs elsewhere.
3244|Xulgath Warrior|Xulgath warriors strike with fury and eager cruelty, always ready for the next fight. The taking of prizes from battle—including weapons and items stolen from defeated foes along with grislier trophies harvested from fallen victims' flesh—is a popular pursuit among these vicious reptiles, and those whose armor and scales are most adorned are awarded the greatest respect (and perhaps fear) from their kin.
3260|Troodon|Troodons stand roughly 3 feet tall and twice as long, with slender necks and large, inquisitive eyes. Although they don't fully understand language, troodons have a remarkable talent for speech mimicry.
3282|Magnetic Gecko|Metal objects seem to gravitate to this otherwise innocuous gecko. Its fondness for refined metals often leads the reptile to settle close to large settlements.
3367|Zoog|Recall Knowledge - Beast
2414|Ratajin|Most commonly found in Vudra and Jalmeray, ratajin aren't so much twisted by curses as they are molded by the lingering effects of curses inflicted on generations millennia past. The difference lies in understanding the original ratajin characteristics. No curse gave ratajin four eyes on a slender face, nor triple-jointed, hypermobile legs and multiple arms. Nor did curses provide ratajin with skin tones of all hues within the color spectrum. Instead, these residual curses have given each ratajin distinctive geometric markings all across their body. Every ratajin also experiences a cursed twist on their senses, altering how they view and interact with the world around them. Some ratajin visualize the world in shifted, indescribable color spectra. For others, sounds physically manifest as feelings on their skin. Haunting melodies of past actions might whisper in the wind behind one ratajin, while another can be awake only during hours devoid of sunlight.
2444|Desa-Desa|Also known as “bubble cats” or “gas cats,” desa-desas are small, vaguely feline predators that hunt the jungles of Castrovel. A typical desa-desa is roughly the size and shape of a bobcat. Its head is reptilian, sporting large eyes and slender fangs that protrude from its lips. Desa-desa fur tends to match their environment—most are dark green and brown—and is punctuated by patterns of small, bubble-like bladders that protrude from the creature's skin like transparent boils. Every desa-desa has a different bladder pattern, and this distinctive anatomical feature is key to the creature's survival.
2455|Quarry Construct|This creature did not include a description.
1865|Lacedon|Feared by mariners and coastal dwellers everywhere, the aquatic ghouls known as lacedons are said to be the spawn of an ancient crew of sailors who became lost at sea and were forced to resort to cannibalism to survive. Their appearance is the stuff of a diver's nightmare, supplementing the vicious traits of their land-bound kin with spines, fins, and wide mouths bristling with needle-sharp teeth like piscine predators of the nethermost ocean depths.
1884|Decrepit Mummy|If a mummy has been in combat, endured the ravages of time, or been exposed to the elements, it can be so damaged it barely functions. These mummies continue guarding their tombs until they are too broken to even move.
1897|Shredskin|Shredskins are flying, flapping animate skins who wander the lands lamenting their fate and feeling hollow and adrift, as if they're missing something crucial inside them. They try to enshroud and seize 
1919|Husk Zombie|Rather than allow a body to rot, some necromancers attempt to dry-cure the corpse to prevent further deterioration. Combined with special reagents, this process can preserve a rudimentary form of intelligence, allowing husk zombies to act more like predators than their mindless kin. Most husk zombies have no memories of their prior lives, though some keep trinkets from that time, oblivious as to why they value such items. A rare few husk zombies retain most of their former knowledge, though they tend to have gaps in their memory.
1929|Yeast Ooze|Wild yeast and alchemy combine to form this monstrous frothing ooze.
2002|Leandrus|This creature did not include a description.
2009|Corrosive Lizard|This creature did not include a description.
2218|Gromog|This creature did not include a description.
2227|Chew Spider|This creature did not include a description.
2271|Lizardfolk Warrior|This creature did not include a description.
94|Deep Gnome Warrior|Deep gnome warriors are quick to charge into battle but focus on defending their kin and their homes over more aggressive tactics when a choice is available.
166|Drow Rogue|Loners at heart, drow rogues trust no one—least of all fellow slayers. These drow rely on awareness and adaptation to survive the cutthroat nature of their society.
427|Bloodlash Bush|What first appears to be a simple shrub suddenly stirs to life.
434|Emperor Bird|The emperor bird is native to the jungles of the Mwangi Expanse and known for its brilliant plumage and innate magic. While it usually feeds on lizards, big insects, and other small creatures, the emperor bird is highly territorial and not afraid to attack larger prey. Its beak, resembling that of the much smaller peafowl, is exceptionally sharp, but its deadliest weapon is its tail—the long, whiplike blades of bone hidden among its tail feathers are a nasty surprise for any predator trying to sneak up on the bird.
435|Grauladon|Grauladons are vicious predators that appear crocodilian in form, but are in fact distant offshoots of dragonkind. They make their dens in the shallows of fetid ponds or isolated corners of larger bodies of water, usually in rural swamps or woodlands. Driven almost entirely by their base desire to feed, grauladons spend most of their time swimming leisurely underwater looking for prey such as fish or waterfowl. Possessed of a greed befitting their more majestic dragon cousins, grauladons often take down prey larger than they need, jealously guarding the corpses to keep scavengers away even as the meat rots. A typical grauladon is 16 feet long from its snout to the tip of its tail and weighs 1,500 pounds.
505|Mechanical Carny|Mechanical carnies are constructs manufactured to serve as entertainers, cleaners, and guards at carnivals and circuses. The first of these constructs was created by a gnome inventor who yearned for a tireless companion who could make her laugh and smile. Her invention was so successful that it has spawned countless imitations and knockoffs throughout the Inner Sea, and mechanical carnies of some form or another are a staple throughout metropolitan lands in both Avistan and Garund. 
522|Shoony Militia Member|If shoonies had their way, war would cease to exist altogether, but they know this isn’t likely. Shoonies’ relative wealth of resources and their frailty compared to other humanoids make them a common target of violence and subjugation. Because of this, basic combat training is typically mandatory for all shoony village members. Few individuals pursue lifelong careers in service to their settlement’s militia, however. The passing down of a sword from one shoony soldier to another is a time-honored tradition, owing to the rarity of weapons in shoony society.
562|Giant Badger|The violent, territorial giant badger is a relentless predator. An obligate carnivore, its prey ranges from rabbits to deer, livestock, and even the occasional traveler or adventurer. A giant badger's claws are sharp and strong enough to carve tunnels from solid rock. They typically stand 4 feet tall at the shoulder and weigh 500 pounds.
566|Black Bear|Contrary to the name, black bears can be cinnamon or even blond in coloration, depending on which hue is most beneficial for surviving in their local environment. Regardless of their coloration, they are opportunistic eaters who gain sustenance from berries and nuts just as often as from fish and smaller mammals. They steal food when they find it, including from humanoid camps. Although they are predators, black bears are more timid than other bears. Unless defending themselves or their young, black bears often avoid conflict or fight only until they can retreat.
570|Blindheim|Inhabitants of damp, subterranean caves, blindheims resemble stubby humanoids with oversized, frog-like heads and bulbous eyes. Their eyes emit a soft glow at all times, but a blindheim can draw back the heavy membrane that normally covers them to emit an intense light as bright as day. These simple creatures use their lights to draw in or disorient prey, mostly small animals like lizards, rodents, or fish. However, they might go after larger prey if trying to feed their young. When they encounter creatures their own size or larger they retreat, flashing their eyes to facilitate their escape if necessary. They often hunt in pairs or small packs. Using their lights to coordinate from a distance, they slowly close in on the creatures they hunt. One common hunting pattern involves one blindheim diving deep and using its light to chase fish to the surface, while another up above snatches them up and tosses them onto the land to eat later.
571|Blink Dog|At first glance, blink dogs seem to be little more than long-eared, bearded canines with tawny coats. Yet their intelligent eyes and the blue nimbus of energy that dances across their fur hint at not only the blink dog's inherent intelligence, but also of their connection to the occult energies and mysteries that hide beyond the sight of the untrained eye. These honorable creatures are as intelligent as most humanoids. They live and hunt in large packs, roaming forests, plains, and the hidden places of the world in hunt for evil creatures—particularly those that dwell in the depths of the 
580|Cave Fisher|Cave fishers lurk in dark corners near the ceilings of caves and underground structures, lying in wait for prey to approach. When it does, the cave fisher excretes thin, tough, and very sticky filaments at its prey with lightning speed to capture it.
646|Spark Bat|Spark bats congregate around volatile weather in the Plane of Air.
650|Living Boulder|Living boulders roll and glide through the Plane of Earth, gathering gemstones and metal shards until their surfaces resemble a ship's hull covered in barnacles. Barely more intelligent than many animals, living boulders fill much the same role on the Plane of Earth as the great herd animals found on Material Plane worlds.
655|Ember Fox|Ember foxes resemble their canid namesakes, save for the flames that make their fur and the tips of their long whiskers flicker and glow.
689|Nuglub|The "towering" hunchbacked nuglubs are among the largest gremlins, though they're not quite three feet tall. Nuglubs have three glowing blue eyes and black, oily hair on their head and back that covers them like a cloak. Nuglubs enjoy killing with a glee that other gremlins reserve for sabotage. Indeed, they spend long hours preparing ambushes for unwary travelers or plotting the murders of sleeping villagers. Though less technically inclined than their kin, nuglubs do enjoy building traps. They delight in stealthily constructing traps in places their victims consider familiar, such as front doors and the floors around beds. If someone else gets blamed for the mayhem the nuglub creates, all the better.
714|Leprechaun|Leprechauns are mostly jovial tricksters who prefer mischief over conflict. They fill their days with as much fun, wine, and food as possible. Mostly found in forested regions, leprechauns respect nature and those who protect it.
731|Morlock|Originating from humans long lost from the world of light, morlocks are brutal monsters that dwell in the tangled tunnels of the upper reaches of the Darklands. Their wiry frames mask the strength of their limbs and their swift reactions, and their arms are long enough that they can drop into an uncanny, four-limbed shuffle for speed or stealth. They no longer remember the lives their ancestors led on the surface, although many morlocks still dwell in the shattered ruins of their ancient homes. Some morlocks worship the statues of humans from these bygone eras as gods, but others now worship 
802|Shocker Lizard|These brightly colored reptiles share the rough size and pack mentality of guard dogs, roaming in small groups. Shocker lizards have specialized glands under their scales that accumulate static electricity, and they can unleash blasts of lightning strong enough to harm significantly larger foes. Though they're meek and docile when encountered alone, shocker lizards are significantly more aggressive in packs, when they can amplify each other's electrical attacks.
828|Giant Toad|Most giant toads live in dry environments, particularly deserts, and eagerly eat almost any creature smaller than themselves. They're known to eat giant rats, then take over the rats' burrows as homes. Giant toads have large poison glands behind their eyes that enable them to coat their skin with poison. This leads to them having very few natural predators, and populations can quickly explode if left unchecked. While most consider giant toads dangerous pests, some groups of 
830|Triton|While sometimes understandably mistaken for 
857|Wereboar|Wereboars tend to be aggressive and stubborn, and often live with their own kind in small, remote communities. Even when they're inclined to interact with others, wereboars' short tempers and hostile nature lead other creatures to avoid them. Lone wereboars who settle down—often on remote farms—are extremely territorial, though others are content to roam and explore lands far from home. Their other habits also vary widely from individual to individual, right down to diet: some wereboars might feast on human flesh, while others are mostly vegetarian.
862|Wolverine|Wolverines resemble small bears, to which they are related. Stocky and muscular with long claws, wolverines are about 3 feet in length and weigh approximately 40 pounds. They have a thick fur coat that protects them from the cold temperatures of the forests and frozen tundras where they reside.
869|Yellow Musk Brute|A creature transformed by a yellow musk creeper's tendrils boring into its brain becomes a yellow musk thrall if it's Small or Medium, or a yellow musk brute if Large (a Small creature becomes a Small thrall rather than a Medium one). The transformation takes 1 hour. A yellow musk thrall takes only the most rudimentary of actions: bringing the yellow musk creeper water and new creatures to infest. After a few days (or if the creeper dies), the thrall wanders off into the wilderness and falls dead within 24 hours. The body of a deceased thrall sprouts a new yellow musk creeper within hours of its death, becoming a fully grown plant within 24 hours.
988|Zrukbat|Zrukbats resemble long-limbed bats with gangly wings, which make them clumsy fliers. Instead, these reclusive fey prefer to crawl along surfaces using the hooked talons on the tips of their wings and feet. Their somewhat humanoid faces feature bulging black eyes, dark fur, and pointed fangs, shocking—if not terrifying—those who get a glimpse of them scuttling along a roof or peeping out from under an eave. Sensitive creatures, zrukbats quickly learn that their appearance triggers negative reactions, yet they prefer to live in urban settlements, observing busy streets and houses from inconspicuous locations.
1026|Stinkweed Shambler|Stinkweed shamblers are animate masses of foul vegetation that grow from necrotic soil where 
1035|Corpselight|A 
1036|Flickerwisp|The dancing, twisting flickerwisp is a less powerful but no less malevolent type of 
1061|Android Infiltrator|Androids possess synthetic bodies inhabited by living souls. These technological organisms first came to Golarion from another world when their starship crashed, scattering wreckage all across Numeria in an event known as the Rain of Stars. Feared by local Kellids and enslaved by the Technic League, androids on Golarion have spent eons being hated and hunted. Many androids survive by adopting 
1073|Azarketi Explorer|This rakish azarketi explores the wrecks and ruins of the Inner Sea's coasts. At home above and below the waves, they fight to protect their discoveries, their life, and their reputation.
1078|Flaming Skull|More dangerous than simple severed heads, these skulls are wreathed in unearthly flames.
1099|Cobbleswarm|Busy road builders might unknowingly use cobble mites in construction.
1139|Duende|Duendes fancy themselves as lords of the land—which is true, in a literal sense, these spirits embody the very soil upon the ground. Unlike most other fey, duendes have learned from the society that grew around them. They've come to accept the mortal understanding of what being a landlord means, so they expect rent from their perceived tenants. However, their notions of acceptable rent—and the acceptable role of a landlord for that matter—don't really line up with those of most societies.
1159|Fading Fox|With fur that shifts between hues of red, dull brown, and silver as it moves, the fading fox vexes any pursuer. It has a knack for escaping traps, leaves no footprints, and seemingly disappears into thin air. Fading foxes have lustrous fur and a robust build that set them apart from their red fox progenitors.
1199|Incutilis|Incutilises are intelligent, nautilus-like sea creatures that attack their victims' brains to take over their bodies, creating puppets to use for labor, combat, or their own malevolent amusement.
1206|Kappa|Mischievous by nature, kappas delight in playing pranks on unsuspecting travelers. While not overtly malicious, kappa pastimes can be a significant nuisance to their victims, such as stealing the clothes of people while they bathe or snatching up unattended food from campfires. Kappas also enjoy proving their worth in competitions of strength and, despite their propensity for trickery, are known to be honorable competitors who keep their word and remain polite in conversation.
1217|Ledalusca|Ledaluscas are reflective water elementals that can bring forth images previously reflected on their surfaces and wholly freeze themselves in the shapes of what they reflected. They explore and protect the calmest boundaries of the icy regions of the 
1232|Monkey Swarm|A single monkey can cause mischief. A troop of monkeys, emboldened by their numbers, can cause utter chaos, attacking anyone and looting anything in sight before scattering away with whatever they can carry.
1241|Munavri Spellblade|Although the subterranean Darklands are known for their cruel and domineering civilizations—led by fiend-worshipping 
1253|Giant Opossum|Larger species of opossum can eat nearly anything human-sized or smaller.
1274|Rosethorn Ram|These hardy mountain dwellers surpass their lowlander cousins in stubbornness and agility. Rosethorn rams sport distinctive, twisted horns that measure up to 4 feet in length and bear thorny growths, which they use to damage enemies in combat and strip the bark from trees during harsh winters when other food is scarce.
1278|Rokurokubi|Rokurokubi come into being when mortals are cursed for some misdeed, though often the one who bears the curse is not the one who committed the offense, but instead their child or spouse. The curse slowly transforms the individual into a rokurokubi as they sleep. At first, their neck extends, or even detaches altogether, to let their head roam freely and engage in simple mischief like scaring neighbors or animals. The sleeper may awaken the next morning from a hazy dream of drinking the oil from nearby lanterns, only to find them indeed empty.
1287|Sasquatch|The elusive sasquatches dwell in the deepest, most remote and secluded tracts of wilderness. They avoid confrontations with humanoids unless drawn out by curiosity. In such cases, glimpses through the underbrush are typically the best an onlooker can hope for, as sasquatches are perfectly content to live their lives in peace hidden in the deep thickets of the wild.
1315|Rat Snake Swarm|A solitary snake might be no cause for alarm, but a hissing mass of frenzied snakes can make even seasoned adventurers shudder. Rat snakes can reach lengths of up to 10 feet, and they gather en masse to hibernate as well as to breed. Though nonvenomous, these territorial snakes will strike anything that threatens them.
1324|Squirming Swill|Grotesque pieces of cast-off animal carcasses slowly stew into an overcooked mass at the bottom of a witch or hag's cauldron. The animals' magical organs— the eyes of the newt, the tongue of the frog—have already been removed, leaving only these sad remains. Nevertheless, animated by long exposure to magic, they sometimes peel free from the sides of the cauldron and wriggle out to freedom. The refuse moves in one giant mass, its skin blackened and crispy, leaving a trail of dripping grease and gravy. Its body is perpetually steaming hot, as though fresh from the pot, fat popping and sizzling.
1326|Giant Flying Squirrel|Though other squirrels can fall from a great height safely, flying squirrels can soar through the air. Flaps of loose skin between their limbs catch the air to keep them aloft as they leap from greater heights. They can use this technique to escape prey or reach places that would be difficult to climb up to.
1328|Strix Kinmate|Strix are avian humanoids with sprawling, dark-feathered wings and large talons. Strix possess angular features and piercing eyes that are fixed facing forward. Their lurching head movements and vertical eyelids give an unnerving quality to their humanoid appearances.
1334|Terror Bird|Common terror birds, also known as axe beaks, are notable hunters. On their own, they use their great speed to catch prey unawares. In a flock, they can swarm larger beasts like aurochs and take them down with overwhelming numbers.
1366|Werebat|Werebats form organized colonies of opportunistic hunters. They aren't shy about transforming creatures to add to their colony, whom they initiate with elaborate social ceremonies and bloody hazing. The curse of the werebat gives them a strong urge to prey upon on weaker, lonely creatures. True werebats are often unusually tall and thin, with angular features. In combat, werebats favor their unarmed attacks because they can't fly while wielding weapons in their wings.
1367|Werecrocodile|The curse of the werecrocodile instills powerful hunger, urges violent displays of dominance, and amplifies greed.
1422|Anadi Hunter|Anadi hunters act as the eyes and ears of their people by scouting surrounding areas for potential invaders.
1602|Shieldbearer Construct|This creature did not include a description.
1610|Giant Mining Bee|Giant mining bees have smaller bodies than giant worker bees but sometimes look larger due to their bristles, which resemble fur. They dig tunnels in sand, old wood, or stone to create nests and aggressively defend their lairs. Although not truly subterranean, giant mining bees are the most likely type of giant bees to be found underground, and some 
1760|Tapir, Giant|With a blunt, prehensile trunk and a squat posture, giant tapirs resemble a cross between elephant and boar, though they're actually more closely related to horses and rhinoceroses. Tapirs live in loose herds that graze near rivers and lakes. They enjoy fresh water, not only for the lush plants that grow along the shores—which they eat in prodigious quantities— but also for the protection the water provides. When predators approach, tapirs retreat to the water to hide, keeping their snouts barely above the surface to breathe. Likewise, the breezes and scents that accompany creeks and rivers mask tapirs' musk as they travel along these waterways. Despite their ungainly movement, tapirs are remarkably sure-footed, easily traversing mud and similar terrain thanks to their broad toes.
1779|Long-Horned Bison Beheaded|This creature did not include a description.
2596|Augdunar|Selectively bred over the course of centuries to be as strong, tough, and grouchy as the 
2605|Unfeeling Empath|The soul of a gnome killed by tragedy sometimes becomes so entangled in conflicting emotions that it becomes trapped and reanimates its own corpse. Known as unfeeling empaths, these undead wander in search of others' emotions. When they find thinking prey, they relentlessly goad that creature to elicit and consume their feelings. Though initially harmless, feeding drives an unfeeling empath into an expressive frenzy as they overload the victim's mind, resuming their senses only after their prey is dead.
2645|Mercurial|Some of the most populous denizens of the 
2687|Gennayn|Gennayns are minor genies who often serve as emissaries and messengers for greater elemental beings. While many find purpose in this humble mission, their true calling and interest is in the arts.
2726|Red-Hooded Thatchling|When a soul doomed to become a thatchling dies in the throes of great anguish, they can return after death as a red-hooded thatchling. These vengeful thatchlings appear to wear red hoods when viewed at a distance, but up close, the grisly truth—that their heads are blood-soaked—is revealed. Unlike other thatchlings, red-hooded thatchlings are skilled at trickery, and their ability to appear as a living 
2819|Animated Armor|Suits of animated armor see use both as guardians and as training partners in high-end martial academies able to afford the extravagance. Often, a warrior's old suit of armor can be turned into animated armor once it accrues too much battle damage to provide adequate protection. They're found most often in wizard laboratories and ancient dungeons.
2824|Giant Ant|Giant ants much resemble their smaller kin in their industrious habits, though growing to the size of ponies makes them much deadlier.
2849|Giant Bat|While big bats are certainly not uncommon in dark caves and abandoned ruins and may instill fear in squeamish spelunkers, the so-called giant bat is a true monster, weighing well over 100 pounds and having a wingspan of nearly 15 feet. It primarily eats fruit and bugs, but can be incited to violence through fear or hunger. Giant bat attacks can quickly give rise to rumors of more dangerous monsters—many mistake these massive animals for some sort of demon or vampiric monster. But like other bats, giant bats are simply social and intelligent mammals. They are sometimes used as mounts by smaller humanoids, commonly those who hail from or dwell in mountainous or underground regions.
2860|Bugbear Prowler|Bugbear prowlers specialize in the art of lurking in the shadows.
2865|Leopard|Leopards are among the smallest of the big cats, yet they are still dangerous creatures to tangle with. Leopard statistics can also be used for black panthers, white-spotted snow leopards, or tawny-coated cougars.
2887|Crocodile|Crocodiles can be found basking on riverbanks, lurking in swamps, or floating in lakes. They are usually indistinguishable from logs when viewed from afar—at least until they attack. Alligators have similar statistics, but because they often live in more temperate climates, they endure cold temperatures better. Unlike alligators, crocodiles can tolerate salt water. Both are formidable predators that are likely to devour careless adventurers who fail to watch where they step.
2895|Pusk (Sloth Demon)|Among the lowest and least powerful of all demons, the wretched pusks are just as vicious and cruel as their more powerful brethren. They happily vent their frustrations on anything weaker than themselves.
2902|Dero Stalker|Dero stalkers explore the surface world by night, seeking out victims to abduct. While hiding from the burning light of day, stalkers often assist with magisters' experiments.
2957|Dragonet|Although they are much smaller than their larger dragon cousins, fey dragonets have many of the same physiological attributes, including long necks, toothy maws, sinuous tails, and sharp claws. They flit about on iridescent butterfly wings, the coloring of which changes based on where they live, giving them a natural camouflage. Unlike their larger kin, an adult fey dragonet remains the same size throughout their lifespan. The only visual clue to the age of a fey dragonet is the sheen on their scales, a glimmer that becomes more lustrous the older they get.
3010|Ghoul Soldier|Retaining their martial skill, these powerful ghouls are not afraid to meet their foe in the open, feeding on the flesh of their fallen opponents to learn their combat abilities.
3049|Herexen|When a cleric rebels against their deity and dies in the grip of blasphemous rage, the heresies they committed in life may fuel their transformation into an undead herexen. Herexens seek vengeance against the deity they once worshipped, defiling temples, slaying the faithful, and rallying lesser undead and death cultists to aid them in their unholy quests. Though a herexen's divine gifts have mostly been corrupted into the vileness of undeath, they stubbornly cling to remnants of their former power, still wielding magic and armaments favored by the deity they so greatly despise.
3052|Hippogriff|With the proud bearing of a great raptor and the magnificence of a powerful horse, hippogriffs are thought to be an accidental fusion of creatures or perhaps the creation of a flesh-warping wizard with a keen aesthetic sense. Regardless of their original source, these animals are now a common sight in the skies above their favored plains or hill country.
3060|War Horse|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3063|Hryngar Taskmaster|Hryngar priests of the taskmaster god 
3088|Giant Monitor Lizard|Large and seemingly ponderous, a monitor lizard is a deceptively swift and ruthless predator. It ambushes its prey by rushing out from cover and biting the target with its powerful jaws. A giant monitor lizard's saliva is venomous, allowing it to bring down prey larger than it can easily haul away in its jaws. Giant monitor lizards grow up to 14 feet long, including their long tails, and they weigh about 350 pounds. Their bodies are normally dark brown with patches of yellow or green.
3138|Pipefox|Pipefoxes are small, fluffy snakes with the head of a fox. They spend their days lurking in dark corners, hanging from trees, coiled around pipes, or otherwise lounging anywhere they can observe something interesting in peace and quiet. Pipefoxes are neither pests nor pets; they simply skulk around, acquiring knowledge and searching for a worthy scholar to disseminate their observations to.
3178|Sedacthy Scout|Scouts, usually young sedacthies, ply the ocean in search of animal servants or tread ashore to hunt. Scouts hunting on the surface press 
3181|Zyss Serpentfolk|Even the least among zyss serpentfolk consider themselves greater than any mammal. Their magical abilities, most notably their telepathy, are all the reason they need to hold this view. And it's true enough that the instinctual skill and magic of any zyss is enough to best the average human.
3199|Slurk|The slurk is a sticky, tusked frog-beast found in underground lairs and caves. It has two massive tusks that it uses to gore prey and tangle with rival slurks. With the slurk's natural ability to climb walls and cling effortlessly to ceilings, it can be easy for unwary cave explorers to end up on the wrong end of these formidable ivory tusks.
3202|Giant Viper|The giant viper's fangs are a frightening sight, with injection tubes as long as daggers. The sheer amount of venom injected by a giant viper can cause severe blood clotting and leave a victim utterly drained of vitality.
3235|Wererat|Wererats tend to be selfishly opportunistic, avaricious, and paranoid as a result of their curse. Because wererats typically dwell in metropolitan areas where they can hide in plain sight, practically any city goer could be a wererat in disguise—from the quiet shopkeep to the city's criminal mastermind. The bustle of crowds and countless rat holes make ghettos and shantytowns favored homes for wererats, especially since in these poorer districts the wererat can kill out of greed or fear with little chance of the authorities noticing. In some cities, wererats operate entire thieves' guilds or organized crime rings, and membership requires willfully submitting to the wererat's cursed bite. Wererats look very similar to 
3245|Xulgath Skulker|Xulgath warrens are patrolled—some might say “haunted”—by the community's skulkers. These xulgaths specialize in stealth, striking swiftly from the shadows and otherwise ambushing foes.
3251|Zombie Brute|Necromantic augmentations grant this zombie giant increased power.
3261|Protoceratops|Though it lacks the distinctive horns of its larger relative the 
3275|Stonefish Swarm|Stonefish occasionally band together where food is abundant, filling all nooks and crannies of a coral reef. In large numbers, stonefish can take on prey much larger than themselves.
3305|Harbor Seal|Harbor seals are the most common seals found in Golarion and famous for their soft, furry bodies. They're vicious hunters underwater, but typically shy of humanoids on the surface, preferring to hide among the waves rather than face down what seems to be a terrifying land predator.
3309|Shotalashu|These reptilian beasts of burden are primarily known for their telepathic nature and close bond with their riders. Shotalashus are native to the planet Castrovel, where they are the traditional mounts of lashunta warriors, though some have appeared on Golarion thanks to travel between the two worlds. Both 
3313|Stony Goat|Stony goats diverge from their common cousins via their rock-like horns and unique appetites. These meek creatures love to eat mineral ores, using teeth tougher than diamonds to grind down rocks and metals. The indigestible components, such as refined chunks of metal and precious stones, coagulate into a cud the goat regurgitates to further ruminate on. In emergency situations, stony goats can even drain nutrition from their cud. These properties might make stony goats excellent companions for miners and metalworkers; however, the beasts are quite rare and famously difficult to train.
3338|Devil's Disciple|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
2382|Goblin Bat-Dog|This creature did not include a description.
2409|Kasesh|In the ancient days, before humanity dwelled on Golarion, the Vault Builders had need of something smaller in scale than the great vault seeds so they could finish their worlds as they liked. They took a small gem and wrote a word of power upon it. They gave it eyes so it could see and legs so it could walk, and made it wise. These creatures are known as kaseshi by scholars who have encountered them, though their true name—the one that brought them into being—is likely considerably more powerful.
2416|Ugvashi|These razor-plated pangolins—about the size of small ponies—are the traditional pack animals of halflings from Casmaron, though the ugvashi's serrated plates and tendency to curl up make them ill-suited as mounts. Ugvashi first arrived in the Impossible Lands onboard the Thousand and One ships of Maharajah Khiben-Sald, alongside peafowl, giant squirrels, and other fauna from Vudra. In the modern day, ugvashi are such a recognized sight that many people forget they aren't a native species. Though some feral populations exist, mainly on the island of Jalmeray, the hostile environs of Nex and the Mana Wastes mean ugvashi mainly appear in domestic settings, usually as working beasts among the Nearic halflings of western Nex.
2446|Ocluai|Ocluais embody the fear of being lost and helpless in the darkness as well as the danger of unreasoning terror. An ocluai's gray body resembles that of a featherless owl with a serrated beak, the legs of a monkey, and oversized eye sockets full of shadow. The field of unnatural darkness that surrounds an ocluai disorients most creatures; while other gorgas are quick to move in for the kill, ocluais love to perch on a low branch or lintel and watch with their blank expressions as prey succumbs to panic. Though capable fighters, ocluais prefer to hang back and slash at those whose frantic fight brings them within range, letting their prey's own terror drive them over cliffs or bring them to their knees.
2447|Immolis|Most complex organisms, whether plant or animal, produce energy by converting fuel (such as food) into heat. Though this process is invaluable, it's also a vulnerability—one that the immolis has evolved to exploit.
2454|Tree Fisher|This creature did not include a description.
2461|Skin Beetle|A typical skin beetle is 1-1/2 feet long and weighs 10 pounds—about the size of a house cat. Its oval-shaped body is covered in dull-colored scales, and short, club-like antennae stem from shallow grooves in its head.
2463|Nimble Guide|Nimble spirit guides are small and discreet, using their diminutive size and natural agility to dart from hiding place to hiding place. They tend to be much shyer than other spirit guides, at least initially, preferring to watch nearby mortals from a distance before deciding whether to trust them. When their trust is so earned, nimble spirit guides are often playful and contagiously exuberant. These spirit guides can often be found entertaining lost children with antics until they are rescued or freeing prisoners by stealing keys and picking locks.
1857|Fiddling Bones|To some, music is more than a hobby—it's an obsession. Every musician who lived and died for their craft runs the risk of returning as a fiddling bones, as do musicians who died before completing their magnum opus or receiving the accolades they believe they deserved. Driven to prove themselves even in undeath, fiddling bones often challenge famous performers to music duels.
1920|Zombie Owlbear|Zombie owlbears combine an 
1926|Clockwork Brewer|With the rise of the automated workforce in Alkenstar came the “professional” line of clockworks, capable of carrying out more complex tasks and even interacting with the public. These clockworks were given modules inscribed with information and procedures for carrying out a specific profession. The clockwork brewer is one such example, capable of extracting wort, stirring a fermenter, or monitoring a boiling temperature. As many other types of clockwork professional exist as there are professions; clockworks have been programmed to reshelf library books, swab ship decks, and fill holes in heavily trafficked roads.
1930|Rust Ooze|These reddish-brown globs wriggle through sewers and other waterways in search of iron pipes, metal trash, and other objects that rust.
2005|Smiler|This creature did not include a description.
2008|Smoldering Leopard|This creature did not include a description.
2032|Cobblebone Swarm|Graydirge's necromancer-architects used a horrifying rending process to strip the flesh and souls off most bones involved in Graydirge's construction, but modern builders lack the benefit of such gruesomely efficient magic. When haunted bones are embedded in buildings alongside mundane materials, nearby bricks and cobblestones can be infused with necromantic energy. If no one exorcises the spirits haunting the bones, they become trapped and confused, their identities and memories intermingling. After several years, they can form cobblebone swarms, malevolent haunted amalgamations of brick and bone. These vengeful creatures conjure ghostly noises to lure victims down narrow alleys or into dark stone basements, where they pummel them to death and cover their remains beneath piles of bones and brick.
2036|Zombie, Dirge Piper|Under rare circumstances, an attempt to reanimate a skilled musician or performer as a mindless zombie is impeded by lingering occult magic that anchors a piece of the being's artistic soul to its shambling body. The resulting dirge piper retains a fragment of the person's former intellect and personality, but lacks the coordination and acuity to make true music any longer. Instead, they force air through the cavities and organs of their decomposing bodies to produce haunting piping, squelches, and trumpeting.
2040|Mosghuta, Boss Cow|This creature did not include a description.
2045|Opkherab|This creature did not include a description.
62|Bunyip|Bunyips are dangerous aquatic predators that resemble a cross between a shark and a seal. Found in freshwater inlets or saltwater coves worldwide, bunyips hunt where prey is plentiful, often to the consternation of coastal residents and fisherfolk.
76|Centaur|Centaurs are legendary hunters and trackers who resemble heavily muscled humans with the bodies of powerful horses from the waist down. They are typically reclusive but haughty, quick to assume that their handsome physiques and long history of cultural traditions make them superior to any two-legged folk they encounter. While stories of bloody clashes between centaurs and humanoid settlers are well known, centaurs are neither intrinsically bloodthirsty nor recklessly aggressive. Rather, they are proud and stubborn and do not take kindly to outsiders who encroach on their ancestral grounds, some of which have been ruled by centaurs for thousands of years. Against despoilers of nature who fail to heed their warnings, centaurs do not hesitate to use their finely honed hunting skills to inflict deadly wounds.
321|Gelatinous Cube|Found underground or in dungeons, these quivering cubes of slime continuously scour their domain for food. The acid in their bodies is weak enough that many gelatinous cubes still contain the gear of their victims, as they’re unable to break them down.
331|Tiefling|Tieflings are planar scions with fiendish blood. One of the most common types is pitborn, who bear a demonic corruption infesting their mortal bloodline. Some strive to live above their forebear’s fiendish reputation, but many, such as this tiefling adept, simply accept their label and delve fully into evil.
354|Rust Monster|Found in lost dungeons, deep caves, and abandoned mines, rust monsters are a bane to any adventurers who rely on armor, weapons, or other metal items. These strange-looking creatures grow to about 5 feet long, with four insectile legs and a long tail ending in a four-pronged appendage resembling a tiny windmill. However, it is the rust monster’s feathery antennae that strike fear in the hearts of battle-hardened warriors, for a single touch from even just one antenna can reduce an adventurer’s most valuable tools to a useless pile of rust.
407|Web Lurker|Web lurkers, known also as ettercaps, are ugly monsters that not only dwell within the lairs of spiders and swarms, but actively cultivate and shepherd such vermin.
448|Grippli Archer|These sharpshooters are renowned for their patience and their accuracy.
507|Bogey|A bogey typically hunts a single creature at a time, usually a small child or elderly person, methodically stalking and tormenting their prey. Often hiding under a bed, amid a dark attic space, or in a closet left slightly ajar, the bogey delights in the slow, methodical cultivation of fear in its victims.
512|Chimpanzee Visitant|Common circus animals viewed as expendable by their caretakers are perhaps the most likely to rise as visitants. Animals that die en masse—such as in a tent fire or other disaster—can even form packs of roving undead.
515|Zuipnyrn (Moon Mole)|This spectacularly odd creature appears every now and again in various traveling circuses around the Inner Sea. Although carnival barkers make any number of claims about this strange being’s origins, the so-called “moon mole” is in fact an alien creature called a zuipnyrn, hailing from a distant planet beyond Golarion’s star system.
555|Assassin Vine|The assassin vine is a carnivorous plant with a voracious appetite. Rather than consuming creatures directly, it creates its own fertilizer by entangling prey and squeezing the life from it. Once the plant has killed a creature, it pulls the carcass over to its roots to feed from the decaying flesh. Although an assassin vine lacks eyes, it can detect and track prey through a combination of using its root systems to detect vibrations through topsoil and its leaves to detect heat changes in the vicinity. Although the assassin vine has no real intelligence, its learned behaviors mimic those of cunning ambush hunters.
577|Caligni Slayer|Caligni slayers possess greater occult talents than others of their kind. In most other calignis, the power bartered from the long-lost demigods known as the Forsaken merely burns within. But in caligni slayers, this power is a deep and terrible hunger. Slayers embrace their evil impulses as a result, and they seek to feed on others with their soul harvest ability to keep this supernatural hunger sated. Slayers denied the opportunity to feed descend into paranoia and, eventually, murderous rage.
581|Giant Whiptail Centipede|Whiptail centipedes are sleek and swift tunnel predators.
637|Giant Dragonfly Nymph|The aquatic, wingless offspring of dragonflies are called dragonfly nymphs. Giant dragonfly nymphs can be several feet in length and mostly hunt in shallow waters, eating carrion and ambushing living creatures with their fully grown counterparts. They are not daunted by larger creatures, compelled by their instinct to eat as much as possible to sustain their growth.
644|D'ziriak|These strange creatures are native to the 
724|Giant Chameleon|Giant chameleons are legendary for their ability to change their skin color in response to their surroundings. Their eyes are capable of peering in different directions independently, making them almost as difficult to sneak up on as they are to notice in the first place.
732|Fen Mosquito Swarm|When deadly fen mosquitoes gather in large numbers, they form into lethal swarms capable of draining blood at a truly alarming rate. Fen mosquito swarms are typically encountered only in tropical swamps or bogs, but during humid months in spring or summer they can drift into riverine areas or even through the waterfront reaches of settlements.
767|Esobok|Esoboks are brute hunters and pugnacious sentinels that serve as the guard dogs of the 
778|Quickling|Few creatures can match a quickling's speed. These malicious fey creatures delight in striking with blinding speed and accuracy, racing in to stab and slash at foes before scampering away for cover with maddening— even frightening—swiftness. Stories of people simply doubling over, bleeding from what appear to be spontaneously opening wounds, are often eyewitness accounts of quickling attacks.
782|Raven Swarm|A flock of ravens is known as an unkindness. Certainly the name lives up to its meaning when a swarm of ravens decides to work together. In most cases, a raven swarm like the one presented here won't attack larger foes, but when manipulated by supernatural forces or simple desperation born from hunger, an unkindness of ravens can be a surprisingly dangerous foe.
835|Trollhound|Trollhounds are squat, slavering beasts akin to trolls in canine form. Requiring vast quantities of meat to fuel their regenerative metabolisms, packs of wild trollhounds prowl the foothills of regions where 
840|Urdefhan Warrior|From the moment they are born, urdefhans are prepared for war. Urdefhan warriors are among the least powerful urdefhans one might encounter outside of their eerie underground cities.
853|Violet Fungus|At a glance, a violet fungus might seem to be little more than an unsightly and sickeningly purple mushroom of unusual size. Only once one draws closer— once whip-like tentacles dripping with flesh-rotting venom slither out from the fungus's cratered cap—does the terrifying truth of this carnivorous toadstool become apparent. Many amateur spelunkers have met untimely ends in the clutches of this monstrous fungus's tentacles, since violet fungi are practically synonymous with caverns on Golarion.
870|Yeth Hound|Wicked canine creatures who live for the thrill of the hunt, yeth hounds often serve evil masters as guardians and trackers. Yeth hounds resemble lean, sleek dogs with overlarge ears and narrow paws that can tread on air as easily as the ground. Despite their canine appearance, yeth hounds are remarkably intelligent, although they rarely display this intelligence except when devising intricate tactics to ensnare their quarry. Their eerie bays echo across the countryside when they are engaged in a hunt, and they particularly enjoy baying to frighten and disorient intelligent creatures. Yeth hound packs can number as many as a dozen members, each working in uncanny communion with its packmates to corner and kill their prey. Yeth hounds like to drag their victims back to their lairs to eat at their leisure, so these lairs often contain discarded treasures from the hounds' previous meals.
985|Binumir|Whenever two individuals who share a strong emotional bond perish together, they might rise as a combined spirit known as a binumir. The two individuals' souls partially merge into a singular entity, though each one feels a constant longing for the other. This curse causes a binumir great distress and envy, leading the creature to lash out and attack others. Only the destruction of the binumir will liberate the two spirits and finally give them peace.
987|Siege Shard|Sieges provoke lingering feelings of confinement and desperation. These emotions can coalesce as a psychic presence that animates broken battlements as quasi-intelligent constructs dubbed siege shards. The shard's surface depicts the conflicts that created it, which hold the key to dispersing its psychic presence. A successful DC 18 check to 
1025|Scalliwing|Couatls are large, brightly colored serpents with feathered wings. Good-natured, these creatures aid mortals and oppose evildoers, but sighting one presents a momentous occasion—these magnificent, albeit reclusive creatures rarely appear.
1038|Morlock Engineer|Most morlocks have little talent for crafting, but a rare few have an uncanny knack for tinkering.
1147|Shulsaga|Shepherds of the Silver Sea, shulsagas patrol the 
1155|Piranha Swarm|More teeth and fury than body, few fish command as much fear and anxiety as the piranha. They move almost exclusively in schools, overwhelming larger creatures with sheer numbers and ferocity. Piranhas aggress toward sudden disturbances in the water and can smell blood from far away. Harvested piranha teeth serve as excellent cutting tools.
1164|Ghoran Manipulator|This ghoran manipulator relies on charm to survive.
1195|Dvorovoi|Traditionally, the dvorovoi is seen as the domovoi's younger sibling and has charge of a peasant's yard and all the animals and tools within. Animals favored by the dvorovoi become healthy, strong, and obedient, while less-loved livestock are exhausted and miserable. Peasants with a resident dvorovoi make sure to formally introduce new livestock to the house spirit and placate the spirit by leaving meals in the shed. Dvorovoi loathe white-furred animals and chase away any all-white cows or horses, though they have no similar grudge against chickens.
1212|Kovintus Geomancer|Kovintus are reclusive humanoids with an inborn talent for geomancy that ties them intrinsically to nature. Not only can they call upon the magic of nature, it also calls to them in return, turning them into an element of the surrounding terrain when they die. One of the strongest traditions in kovintus culture is making maps to chronicle the places their loved ones have become one with the landscape.
1221|Living Graffiti|A living graffiti is a painting or drawing that has come to life by magic. These two-dimensional beings can move along any flat surface they touch, including walls, floors, furniture, doors, and even bodies of still water. They can't exist apart from the surfaces they traverse except in brief bursts, which they typically use to harass or attack nearby creatures. They exhibit a mischievous nature and desire to make the real world as much of a caricature as their own two-dimensional domain.
1238|Platecarpus|The mid-sized platecarpuses are the most common type of mosasaur. They're typically 15 feet long, but larger specimens can grow up to 20 feet. The larger varieties sometimes eat Medium humanoids, but most stick to smaller fare.
1245|Narwhal|Narwhals are mid-sized whales known for the long tusk that grows from their nose. The tusk, forming from a protruding canine tooth, appears primarily on males and can grow up to 10 feet in length over the course of an adult narwhal's life. In addition to helping the narwhal attract mates (much like a peacock's feathers), the tusk can serve as a weapon.
1289|Seahorse|Giant seahorses are bear-sized, docile versions of their tiny, more common cousins. 
1331|Tattoo Guardian|Tattoo guardians are vigilant protectors drawn onto the skin of the individuals they are meant to protect. The creators of tattoo guardians typically animate them as they apply the tattoo using specific rituals and specialized inks, though more obscure rituals can animate a tattoo that's already been applied. Regardless of their animating method, tattoo guardians can temporarily remove themselves from their ward's skin and attack or even interpose themselves between their ward and any dangers. Most tattoo guardians remain on their ward and attack without separating.
1348|Trilobite Swarm|Trilobites typically live in close proximity to others of their kind. On rare occasions, particularly when the most common prey around is larger than what a single trilobite can take down, they form swarms that seem to actively cooperate with each other. These swarms latch onto their prey, and the combined efforts of so many trilobites at once make escape difficult.
1362|Vulture|Recognizable at a distance by their black feathers and bald necks, vultures drift along air currents looking for carrion to serve as their next meal. Often grouping in committees of four or five, these scavengers wheel above battles and plague-stricken towns, eager to feed. This feeding cycle plays an important role, especially in hot regions, as their particularly potent stomach acid neutralizes dangerous bacteria in their meals and thus removes it from the environment.
1392|Anugobu Apprentice|Most young anugobus undertake not just one, but many apprenticeships in order to learn advanced techniques in their trade of choice. The apprentice depicted here specializes in construction and engineering, but an anugobu is just as likely to take up cooking, hunting, tailoring, or really anything that piques their interest.
1431|Charau-ka Acolyte of Angazhan|Even with the Gorilla King's fall, many charau-ka still worship the terrible might of the god 
1601|Umbo|This creature did not include a description.
1607|Anadi Lurker|These anadis lurkers combine their innate magical talents and wilderness lore to snare prey. 
1617|Kurshking, Gremlin Trickster|Though her tiny stature and canine features would never suggest it, Kurshkin is an immortal trickster older than most members of the Magaambya. As a 
1677|Thasteron Khefak|Thasteron khefaks are alchemically enhanced versions of standard khefaks, capable of converting the minerals they eat into thasteron. While thasteron remains highly valuable as fuel and for specialized weapons, finding an experienced thasteron khefak breeder is hard because the creatures become radioactive over time.
1739|Spring-Heeled Jack|The greatest secret of the murderous trickster known as Spring-Heeled Jack is that he isn't a unique creature. Instead, he's one of a rare type of fey native to the 
1744|Ulgrem-Lurann|Ulgrem-Axaan
1772|Castoroides|Castoroides are bear-sized beavers that build their lodges on land near a water source rather than in the water.
1777|Lagofir|Lagofirs are semiaquatic omnivores that resemble a rabbit the size of a large dog. They're social creatures, playful but territorial and protective of their kin. Lagofirs live in family units and gather in larger groups as often as their environment allows. They're commonly found in northern Avistan, congregating along rivers, lakes, and coasts, where they subsist on fish, crustaceans, marine plants, and small mammals. 
1780|Bargott|This creature did not include a description.
2611|Hhruklaz|This creature did not include a description.
2646|Kinzaruk|In its natural state, the kinzaruk resembles a paper-thin, perfectly square sheet of lightweight silvery-white metal, approximately 15 feet across. It's almost never encountered this form, however, being far better known for its ability to intricately fold its body thousands of times in an instant to reconfigure itself into a varied assortment of deadly animal-like shapes.
2672|Nursery Crawler|The vibrant elemental energy of the 
2684|Lomori Sprout|Lomori sprouts are passionate gardeners who closely tend new growth on the 
2702|Ether Sprite Swarm|One ether sprite is quite enough for most, and can be tiresome for even the fey. When a group of them get together, it's outright bedlam.
2728|Primordial Envy|The primordial envy is most often found in underground ruins within Edasseril. It hungers for magic, leaching it from any source it can come into contact with. This hunger can be exploited by clever adventurers who bait it with powerful destructive magics. A primordial envy is one of the most defensive sin oozes, and it tends to layer 
2734|Zoudou the Zealous|This creature did not include a description.
2741|Vlorian Cythnigot|This creature did not include a description.
2747|Glutu|This creature did not include a description.
2753|Bakeneko|A bakeneko comes into existence when the life of a cat is extended past its normal lifespan, whether through incredible fortune, magic, or other means. With each passing year, the feline becomes more and more monstrous—growing in size, becoming more intelligent, and gaining an affinity for magic. Eventually, they become able to walk upright on their rear legs, pursue new hobbies, and learn languages. Despite this expanded intellect, many bakenekos prefer to enjoy the first decades of their ascension continuing their lives as usual as a (particularly oversized) house cat. For some, they do so because they want to acquire knowledge of the world that they couldn't comprehend as cats, but for others, it's just a desire to live out their lives with their current families and loved ones before moving on to what comes next.
2773|Jiidon|Legends among jiidons explain that many ages ago, when magic was wilder and of less distinct order, a magic-touched rat consumed the discarded fingernails of a human, and the gods granted that rat the ability to shapeshift into a copy of that human. True or not, jiidons are seemingly normal rats who share the blessing from this story. It's unclear where the first jiidon was born because their descendants live among rat and humanoid populations around the world. In their original forms, jiidons are extremely difficult to distinguish from an ordinary rat and often even finds a home leading its non-sapient kin.
2837|Athamaru Hunter|Deep in the sea, schools of athamarus—piscine humanoids armed with spears and specialized crossbows—stalk sharks, sea serpents, and giant squid from the backs of their 
2858|Boggard Swampseer|The boggard swampseer has been gifted with magic through their worship of the demon lord 
2866|Lion|Lions are cooperative hunters, ambushing dangerous prey in groups of lionesses that work in tandem to trap and kill, bringing food home to their prides. Male lions are typically larger, with long manes, and when they hunt, they tend to do so on their own.
2903|Dero Strangler|Dero stranglers specialize in capturing living victims, and they are often called upon to aid in abductions.
2969|Giant Eagle|No mere animals, giant eagles have a keen intellect and a strong sense of honor. As guardians of their mountain homes, giant eagles attempt to prevent the encroachment of civilization upon wild land and the predations of wicked humanoid settlements. Giant eagles congregate within aeries holding up to a dozen members and work together to protect their domains.
2981|Cinder Rat|These oversized rodents are made of smoldering charcoal and elemental fire, and noxious fumes continually bellow from their flaming flesh. Even other fire elementals find cinder rats unpleasant and are glad when they're summoned away from the 
3040|Sea Hag|Sea hags specialize in transformation magic, preying on those who are desperate to change some aspect of their physical appearance. Targets often include those suffering from insecurity about their bodies or those desperate to reside in a different environment, such as aquatic creatures who wish to live on land. These hags are known for tempting desperate victims into tragic and excruciating bargains, though they're also happy to drown and eat mariners who stray too close to their dwellings.
3066|Hyaenodon|Hyaenodons are ferocious primeval creatures that resemble hyenas. Looming, shaggy-furred animals nearly the size of a horse, hyaenodons are truly formidable predators to be reckoned with, due both to their size and to their flesh-shearing jaws. Hyaenodons prey on small horses, camels, and even young rhinoceroses. Kholo clans find these creatures particularly useful as mounts and guardians.
3070|Kholo Bonekeeper|Some kholos serve as conduits to the divine and are responsible for placating spirits and gods alike. 
3094|Giant Mantis|These massive cousins of praying mantises stand taller than an average human.
3112|Dryad|Dryads are fey guardians of the trees and creatures who dwell in wooded areas. They prefer using indirect methods to dissuade those who would harm their sacred groves and beloved forests, but they're not above using magic to enlist the aid of allies when evil threats cannot be dissuaded with words alone. In times of peace, dryads happily live secluded lives inside their trees, and a community at harmony with nature might not even realize a dryad lives nearby.
3134|Pegasus|The pegasus is a winged horse prized for its capacity to serve as an aerial mount. Unfortunately for those who desire a saddle-trained pegasus, pegasi are wild creatures and do not readily accept even well-intentioned riders. Pegasi actively resist being mounted or controlled by evil creatures, attempting to buck an unwanted rider at every opportunity. A typical pegasus stands 6 feet high at the shoulder, weighs 1,500 pounds, and has a wingspan of 20 feet.
3175|Giant Scorpion|These massive, terrifying arachnids are typically 8 feet long from head to the base of the tail. Giant scorpions are the favored pack animals and war beasts of various desert-dwelling creatures, particularly 
3211|Draxie|The mischievous dragon sprites called draxies have dueled their pixie cousins for the title of ultimate prankster for centuries. They exercise patience and planning to create the perfect pranks, spending months, or even years, on their efforts. One exception to their flighty nature is the elucrea, a lifelong bond between a draxie and a creature they're particularly fond of, typically one with a good sense of humor. According to draxie legend, a little piece of a draxie's spirit remembers being united as the ancient 
3222|Twigjack|“True” twigjacks, as they consider themselves, are found in wild forests alongside the fey they idolize.
3223|Unicorn|Symbols of grace and purity, unicorns resemble proud and noble horses. They typically have pure white coats, but they are best known for the single, delicate horn that extends from the center of their forehead. While unicorns often serve as protectors of unspoiled wilderness and sacred places, they are themselves highly sought after for their horns, which are said to possess potent magical properties. To many, the mere idea of hunting such a magnificent creature in the hopes of severing its horn is utterly reprehensible. Indeed, a dehorned unicorn is a sorry sight, and few such unicorns survive much longer in the wild.
3233|Giant Wasp|Giant wasps are much more dangerous but less common than their smaller kin, and—to the relief of those who encounter them—they tend to be solitary.
3236|Werewolf|The curse of the werewolf—known as lycanthropy to many—instills in its carriers the hungry bloodlust and predatory instincts of the wolf. Werewolves tend to dwell on the fringes of society or in small settlements where, in their humanoid forms, they work as laborers, hunters, farmers, or trappers. At night, however, these same villagers transform into violent killers and sadistic stalkers who prey on their neighbors. Werewolves are the quintessential werecreature, and the first that comes to mind when most people speak of such beings.
3239|Wight|Wights are intelligent undead spawned through inescapable cycles of spite. This spite might come from their own malevolent will in life, or can be instilled by necromantic rituals, typically involving the desecration of burial sites. Wights usually haunt burial grounds, catacombs, or other places of the dead. Their hunger is targeted toward the living—those whose pumping hearts and ruddy warmth inspire visceral hatred.
3242|Dire Wolf|Much larger and more foul-tempered than their common cousins, dire wolves haunt primeval lands that accommodate their massive size and proportionately large hunting grounds and appetites. Orcs are fond of using dire wolves as mounts, finding their vicious tempers perfect for hunting and warfare. Dire wolves are far more likely to prey on humanoids than ordinary wolves, considering them nothing but another kind of smaller, nutritious animal.
3258|Crying Cicada|These small insects are a nuisance and danger to small villages within Brevoy, taking over entire forests and blending in with the foliage. Also known as calling beetles, due to their ability to mimic and repeat the voices of their previous victims, crying cicadas wait for passersby to lure into the trees, fascinating their victims with their cries before fluttering their wings to release toxic dust. Once a target is near death, crying cicadas will take flight from the trees and land on the body to feed.
3277|Swordfish|Contrary to popular belief, the bill of the swordfish is not used for impaling its prey, but to stun or slash. Specialized organs help keep it warm in the coldest waters, increasing its already considerable speed and reflexes.
3279|Flynkett|The piercing whistle of the flynkett can often be heard over the harsh jungle rains, shrieking dissonantly when its cries combine with others of its pack. Although generally effective as a warning to nearby predators, these sharp cries also serve as a lure for reckless alchemists eager to study the creature's potent enzymes.
3285|Stony Bat|These creatures resemble chubby bats covered in small overlapping metal plates. They can't exhale enough petrifying gas to paralyze a normal-sized humanoid, but it's effective on their usual prey of insects and other small animals, which they petrify before consuming. However, stony bats have learned how to use their petrification gas to defend themselves against larger creatures, freezing a limb or raining down pebbles of petrified water vapor. Further, they can work together to bring down larger creatures, petrifying and consuming them limb by limb.
3323|Weremoose|A weremoose's tendencies toward stubbornness and a grumpy attitude make it difficult for them to get along with others. Most often, they live as hunters or hermits, taking in the peace of their natural surroundings. If their territory is invaded, they don't hide or retreat but are unlikely to attack. If someone else starts the fight, though, a weremoose retaliates without mercy.
3365|Giant Longlegs|The most widespread of the longlegs is the giant longlegs, a creature with a body the size of a dog whose long, spindly legs give it a much more intimidating appearance.
2381|Lickweed|This creature did not include a description.
2410|Kashrishi|To some, kashrishi seem to be a quiet, passive people. Those with a deeper understanding know that there's plenty more nuance to interacting with kashrishi, who possess innate psychic abilities that greatly alter the way they communicate with the rest of the world. Unable to turn off their powers, these abilities add a complex dynamic to interpreting their surroundings. Without deeper understanding of a person, kashrishi are only able to get the most vague, general feelings from people around them. This becomes more refined as their relationships evolve; family and friends are often the easiest to engage in psychic communication, while strangers simply add to the amount of mental noise a kashrishi must process.
2450|Kaneepo The Slim|The First World is a primal cauldron of spontaneous creation and experimental evolution. From the beginning, the First World has churned out inexplicable creatures that defy mortal logic. Kaneepo the Slim is one such entity.
2453|The Looksee Man|This creature did not include a description.
2458|Glimmervine|Glimmervines are carnivorous creeping vines with sparkling white flowers that open to bloom only at night. They flourish most in high altitudes and cold climates, where they survive by dazzling small prey with their iridescent blossoms before crushing them to death with impossibly strong tendrils. The blood and decomposing flesh of their prey seep into the ground like fertilizer for glimmervines' roots to absorb as nutrients. Because scarps and gulleys caked with gore tend to deter future victims, glimmervines instinctively know not to linger in one spot for long.
1873|Ichor Slinger|While the typical snake oil salesperson seeks riches, some medical fraudsters become so enamored with the swindler lifestyle they reanimate to keep living the lie. Known as ichor slingers, these cadaverous alchemists disguise themselves to walk among the living. There they gleefully concoct tonics and peddle cure-alls, charismatically convincing bystanders to overlook questionable ingredients and credentials. Ichor slingers feed on others' attention and trust, caring little for clients' health so long as buyers imbibe the offered medicines. Conversely, rejection infuriates ichor slingers. The undead often stalk, subdue, and administer unwanted medicines to those who snub them. When not selling “panaceas,” ichor slingers harvest macabre ingredients to make dubious new medicines.
1881|Jitterbone|Aptly named jitterbones, 
1931|Harlo Krant|This creature did not include a description.
1949|Daelum|During the height of the legendary war between Nex and Geb, Nex's agents grew increasingly creative in their “recruiting” methods for their armies. One such effort involved the construction of mechanical soldiers powered by arcane engines but directed by transplanted minds. While the process generally involved willing donors who were eager to give up dying bodies to “live on” in constructed frames, rumors persist that Nex harvested the minds of prisoners of war and criminals for these creations.
1972|Akrida|This creature did not include a description.
2010|Pinacosaurus|This creature did not include a description.
2031|Charghar|Common urban legends in Geb warn of the vengeful spirits of those who've been cooked alive, collectively called charghars. While many Gebbites eat people in ways that don't involve cooking, there are some 
2048|Pesgahi the Poisoner|This creature did not include a description.
2060|Kapoacinth|This creature did not include a description.
2226|Davik Nettles|This creature did not include a description.
300|Mimic|Thought to be the result of a failed experiment meant to animate objects or a sinister alghollthu creation, mimics are clever monsters that can take the form of common manufactured objects. Mimics are ambush predators and voracious eaters, surprising their prey through their uncanny ability to mimic the form of common furniture and miscellany. They remain disguised until unsuspecting adventurers happen by, then they lash out in ambush.
359|Sea Devil Brute|Physically imposing sea devils are equipped with some of the best weaponry the community can find, though most are happy to rend their foes using tooth and nail.
504|Luminous Ooze|Luminous oozes are strange globular creatures that glow with brilliant multicolored light. Unlike many oozes, which rely on camouflage and stealth to attack their prey, luminous oozes attract victims with their impressive light displays before blinding them and launching into a frenzied attack. They are often found on the ceilings or walls of dark caverns, and more than a few curious spelunkers have met their end simply by investigating their strange yet beautiful light. The effects of electricity on luminous oozes are ill understood, though those who have studied these creatures liken their static-absorbing power to that of lightning rods.
523|Shoony Hierarch|For all their advancement in agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry, shoonies subscribe to a remarkably antiquated form of leadership; the role of hierarch is normally inherited, passed on to the oldest living child of the village’s previous hierarch. In the instance that the village’s hierarch does not produce an heir, the village holds a general election. Elected hierarchs hold the term for life and are just as highly regarded as hierarchs raised from birth. When the settlement comes under attack, it is up to the hierarch to decide when to fight and when to flee. In most cases, shoonies prefer to elect individuals with a preference toward the latter.
576|Calathgar|Calathgars are mysterious predatory plants that grow in the depths of the densest frozen forests, realms where icicles rarely melt from snow-cloaked trees. A calathgar's blue flowers grow from 3 to 5 feet across (with specimens as wide as 10 feet reported), while the plant itself stands just under 4 feet in height and weighs up to 50 pounds when heavy with seeds.
638|Giant Dragonfly|These buzzing insects are the size of a small horse. They are ambush predators known to hunt beasts and humanoids alike, capable of using impressive aerial acrobatics to swoop down from above and snatch away their prey.
656|Filth Fire|These creatures look like roiling clouds of black smoke churning above a mound of burning refuse. Leering faces form and fade in the smoke above, while the burning trash writhes in spasmodic lurches, obviously alive.
664|Mist Stalker|The tentacled mist stalker shrouds itself in a cloak of mist through which its single, never-blinking eye can see with clarity, allowing it an advantage when stalking its prey.
709|Kelpie|Kelpies are malevolent amphibious fey shapechangers intent on luring mortals to their doom. These cruel predators lurk in and around areas of water, slightly preferring freshwater over saltwater. Kelpies lure or drag their prey underwater then drown and devour them, leaving behind only the victim's heart and liver— the only parts of a meal kelpies find unpleasant. Kelpies are fond of magically disguising itself as fine steeds or attractive strangers to draw in victims, but its true appearance takes the form of a hideous equine with slimy, green flesh resembling aquatic plants.
710|Korred|Korreds are reclusive fey in the form of small, hirsute individuals with long, animated manes of hair. While korreds have a natural affinity and admiration for stones and boulders, they prefer to dwell aboveground in areas of rocky forest or wooded hills rather than in caves. Korreds are a private people who don't take kindly to intruders, and they invariably work to drive off or kill any non-fey who stumble into their territory. Staunchly proud of their hair, korreds choose their minimal attire so as to allow their body hair to flow freely, often wearing only a belt with a pouch for throwing rocks and trimming shears—though this belt and pouch are rarely visible under their wild manes.
712|Brood Leech Swarm|Most smaller species of leeches do not tend to swarm, but brood leeches are prone to gathering in seething, undulant mats of squirming gluttony. When they gather in sufficient numbers to swarm, they eschew the stealth of a lone leech's feeding methods in favor of swift and merciless feeding. In these situations, their mild venom can affect much larger creatures than their usual prey.
753|Gray Ooze|These dangerous oozes are the bane of any who travel through swamps, marshes, or damp caves. Easily masquerading as pools of clear water or patches of wet stone, gray oozes lie in wait for unwary victims to reach down for a drink or step into what appears to be a puddle, then lash out with whiplike pseudopods to ensnare and consume their hapless prey.
831|Frost Troll|Frost trolls are nightmarish frozen monsters of rime-stained claws and hoarfrost teeth. Possessing wits superior to those of common trolls, frost trolls often hunt in packs of three—one attacking their quarry openly while the remaining two pause to assess weaknesses before moving in for the kill. Frost trolls relish the taste of human flesh and adjust their hunting grounds seasonally to remain in close proximity to their favorite prey. Of slighter frame than common trolls, a typical frost troll stands 11 feet tall when not hunched and weighs 900 pounds. Their sickly, cracked flesh is of an icy, cerulean pallor. Frost trolls often adorn themselves with trophies of bone and hide flayed from their kills.
995|Tenome|A tenome resembles an eyeless humanoid with rumpled, pale skin and a single eye embedded in each palm of its cadaverous hands. When they opens their disturbingly wide mouth, this sly, frightful predator's fangs hum and pulse with an eerie drone.
1031|Ogre Hurler|Ogres embody brutish, amoral violence and cruelty.
1050|Shanrigol Heap|The most basic and common type of shanrigol is called, based on its general shape, a shanrigol heap. These amalgamations of warped flesh and shattered bone establish hunting grounds by accident rather than design, remaining where prey has been plentiful in the past so they can grow larger and larger as they add to their jumbled forms. Only rare fleshwarpers create these abominations willingly, as they ignore all commands and containment to seek out prey.
1080|Bison|Bison are large bovines with short faces and two horns; they weigh an upwards of 2,000 pounds and stand up to 6 feet at the withers. Bison herds thunder across the grassy plains of Golarion, shaking the earth. They're a common sight along the Whistling Plains east of Taldor and the wide grasslands of the nation of Karazh in Casmaron; they also frequently appear in the cooler northeastern reaches of Avistan, the River Kingdoms through Numeria, and the Realm of the Mammoth Lords and western Sarkoris.
1106|Hermit Crab Swarm|When hermit crabs find a shell that is too large, they lie in wait for others to arrive and move into the shell, abandoning a possible replacement. This can form a large chain of queuing crabs waiting to upgrade their shells. Interruptions can aggravate the crabs, resulting in attacks against the unfortunate source of disruption.
1110|Abrikandilu (Wrecker Demon)|Wrecker demons, also known as abrikandilus, despise beautiful things and do everything in their power to destroy both people and objects regarded as such. An abrikandilu forms from the souls mortals who were vandals, misanthropes, or defacers of artwork, particularly if their destructive actions stemmed from feelings of powerful envy.
1113|Hellbound Attorney|The Hellbound attorney sought the assistance of a 
1183|Stone Lion|Stone lions are a common sight outside of banks, temples, palaces, and even private residences. The fierce expressions affixed on their faces remind passersby to stay on their best behavior. 
1197|Huldra|At first glance, a huldra seems a simple creature—a human in plain robes or peasant dress, sporting long, unbound hair. These tresses and full skirts in fact disguise the huldra's supernatural features: a hollow wooden back, a long bovine tail, and incredible strength.
1216|Kushtaka|Kushtaka, or “land otters” as they are sometimes known, are devious shapeshifters. They propagate by luring a humanoid away from the shelter of their home and slowly transforming the kidnapped creature into a new kushtaka. Kushtaka have an easier time transforming willing prey, so they prefer to use their shapeshifting ability and innate magical powers to convince their chosen targets to follow them away to a kushtaka village.
1242|Myceloid|The ambulatory fungus creatures called myceloids are notorious for spreading deadly purple pox, controlling creatures' minds, and devouring 
1247|Nightgaunt|Nightgaunts dwell in dreams, lurking in wait to spirit away the unwary dreamer. Once connected to such a being, the nightgaunt feeds upon the mortal's emotions before abandoning them—often in places they might never wake from.
1260|Pangolin|Despite their prodigious size, giant pangolins are solitary, reclusive creatures who forage by night for insects and vermin. To defend themselves from predators, they rely on a veritable arsenal of natural defenses to dissuade their foes: thick armor of wickedly sharp scales, a flexible and muscular body capable of rolling into a defensive ball, and a noxious musk. Against more persistent threats, giant pangolins' powerful digging claws prove mighty weapons in a pinch.
1265|Aphorite|The denizens of the Eternal City of 
1291|Shabti Redeemer|Cobbled together from broken bits of mortal souls, shabti are facsimiles of wealthy or powerful mortals seeking to escape punishment for their sins upon death. Those rulers and nobles afraid of 
1385|Drow Warden|Wardens watch over drow encampments and often work in small groups.
1423|Anadi Sage|Anadi sages commune with nature and hone their innate magic through practice.
1428|Biloko Veteran|A biloko who has led a sufficient number of successful hunts garners the respect (and fear) of their companions.
1605|Urbel|This creature did not include a description.
1619|Takulu Ot, Kindly Teacher of Incoming Students|Takulu was born in the scholarly town of Tunyani, a settlement dedicated to the worship of the Empyreal Lords of magic and knowledge. Due to protection agreements held with the Tempest-Sun Mages of Nantambu, Tunyani's people were afforded the luxury of scholarly focus, with no need for its youths to train as warriors or soldiers. Instead, custom dictated the eldest child of every family would be sent to the priests and become a theologian. Takulu, first born to his parents, arrived at the temples at the age of five. Though he clearly disliked the separation from the rest of his family, Takulu took to his initial lessons well, soon excelling in his studies beyond what even the most learned scholars of Tunyani could offer him. Recognizing their son would never be happy where he was, stifled in both mind and spirit, Takulu's parents invoked a different tradition—a gift of a sacred ibis went to the Empyreal scholars, and Takulu went to the Magaambya.
1621|Damibwa|Damibwas are domesticated hounds capable of detecting prey or predators via echolocation thanks to their exceptionally large ears and keen hearing. Adept swimmers, damibwas have sleek bodies, short limbs, webbed feet, and long muscular tails that enable them to maneuver underwater with grace and speed.
1623|Grippli Skirmisher|Skirmishers are jittery baneback hunters or ambushers. Although they often fight in groups, they aren't loyal to each other and sometimes leave one member of the group behind to face punishment while the others flee.
1781|Bone Warrior|This creature did not include a description.
2579|Simple Harrowkin|The simplest harrowkin resemble creatures with vague features made of patchwork cloth and painted canvas
2597|Draft Lizard|Stout reptiles with scales in a checkered gold and white pattern, draft lizards sport powerful jaws and even stronger backs capable of hauling loads four times their own weight. Native to the underground tunnels of the Five Kings Mountains, the reptiles have been domesticated to serve as beasts of burden within the Depths and sprawling web of passages beyond. Zoologists theorize that they are a part of the same reptile family as 
2602|Hyphae Tyrant|Leshy creations sometimes fall prey to herbivores and foragers. Whereas most take the loss in stride, fungus leshies sometimes grow bitter and explore the grimmer elements of fungi: decomposition and possession. Combining unethical experiments, mind-altering cordyceps spores, and occult magic fueled by their own victim narrative, a fungus leshy can transform into a hyphae tyrant, who in turn transforms corpses into sporeborn puppets to torment local fauna. These leshies' greatest tragedy is perhaps their own impermanence. As their agendas increasingly celebrate decay, a hyphae tyrant's spite and occult narrative slowly drain their life force, ultimately ending in a final burst of destructive energy.
2604|Sporeborn Myceloid|While most sporeborn are created from the flesh of vertebrates or creatures with exoskeletons, fungal and plant creatures serve as a fine host for a sporeborn's parasitic spores. In these cases, the sporeborn mycelial network burrows through the corpse, replacing the original hyphae in fungal creatures and the xylem and pith in plants. This allows the sporeborn to puppet the creature, much as it does in mammals by replacing the tendons with its own rugged mycelium. Fungus and plant hosts are more likely to develop the potent poison sporeborn ability to enhance the hosts' natural abilities.
2606|Xulgath Ravening|Strength and hunger drive most xulgath societies, reinforced by the tenets of their abyssal patron Zevgavizeb. A powerful leader can seize control of a xulgath community and direct their followers to fight as a unit, but formation fighting isn't something most xulgaths practice. This mob mentality often results in overzealous warriors tripping over or even biting each other. Suitably, these mobs have earned the name “ravenings,” a term also used when describing Zevgavizeb's carnivorous rampages and referring to the millennia of xulgath infighting and social decline.
2745|Clockwork Belimarius|This creature did not include a description.
2746|Zaiox|This creature did not include a description.
2748|Theiltemar|This creature did not include a description.
2751|Heart-Eating Vulture|This creature did not include a description.
2812|Faceless Stalker (Ugothol)|Among the subtler of the alghollthu creations were the ugothols—also known as faceless stalkers. These twisted beings used shapeshifting to infiltrate settlements and assassinate key targets. They sowed discord and replaced leaders, causing unwanted organizations to implode and bothersome people to lose face and eventually disappear.
2833|Qarna (Horned Archon)|Qarnas are secretive and tireless sentinels and scouts, patrolling the Outer Sphere's untamed wilds for evil to eliminate and keeping small communities safe from 
2841|Gacanagh (Passion Azata)|Gancanaghs are lovers, revelers, and dashing duelists of 
2846|Barghest|Barghests are canine beasts that take great joy in the hunt, often lurking near humanoid settlements to find prey that can provide a suitable challenge. Even in the deepest wilderness, barghests choose the most clever or difficult prey, searching endlessly for challenges like 
2853|Giant Stag Beetle|The giant stag beetle is larger than a horse, and the sight of one flying (if slowly and somewhat clumsily) on great buzzing wings is unnerving. Its enormous mandibles are used to impress mates, intimidate rivals, and discourage predators, for they can deliver deadly blows. While giant stag beetles are deadly predators, skilled wranglers can domesticate them. In such a capacity, these beetles serve well as beasts of burden or even as mounts.
2855|Daeodon|Where the typical boar is merely ill-tempered and generally unfriendly, the towering daeodon is legitimately hateful and ruthlessly violent. Although omnivorous, the daeodon (known in some regions simply as a giant boar) prefers to feed on flesh. While it is primarily a scavenger, the daeodon isn't adverse to attacking creatures it encounters while searching for easier meals, or to protect any perceived encroachment into its lair or feeding grounds. Particularly brave or skilled 
2864|Caligni Hunter|Although caligni hunters are often pressed into leading their skulker kin, most hunters prefer to wander the Darklands or raid the surface free from those responsibilities. Their preferred assaults are usually done by solo caligni hunters or in small groups of two or three.
2867|Tiger|Tigers are solitary and territorial hunters, using their striped hides to blend into the forests and jungles they call home and preferring to attack with surprise.
3002|Jann|All six elements build each jann and fill them with a constant desire to travel, typically jaunting about 
3041|Sweet Hag|Sweet hags use bright colors, pleasant visages, and sugary treats to draw in children and the young at heart. Their favorite prey is impoverished youngsters who are unlikely to be missed—sweet hags offer them food and a veneer of kindness before devouring the hapless child. Sweet hags also enchant their food to magically charm others, often using these bespelled servitors to handle all of their busywork. Though they present a lovely and generous face to the world, they turn vicious when insulted or defied. A sweet hag's true form is a dribbling mass of flesh with gumdrop eyes, often resembling melting taffy.
3119|Ogre Glutton|Ogre gluttons take the act of feeding to a horrific extreme, capable of extending their already cavernous mouths wide enough to gulp down a halfling. Stories of ogre gluttons being tricked into eating razor-edged shields or barrels filled with poisoned meat are common, but such tales are of little consolation to those who have been gobbled whole by these ravenous giants. In addition to their sadistic table manners, ogre gluttons have a disturbing knack for coming up with  violent “games” that are little more than drawn-out torments, yet those who somehow manage to beat a glutton at the rules of their own game can often enrage the ogre enough that the resulting tantrum provides an opportunity for the captives to escape.
3135|Phantom Knight|Cavaliers and knights who died for their cause make for particularly strong-willed phantoms. Though their motives vary, these phantoms often seek to continue their lifelong missions even in their purgatorial states, and their strong forces of will make them formidable fighters in spite of their incorporeality. A phantom knight might strive to find living followers of their church or order, or seek out other mortals they knew in life as a way of staying grounded and avoiding the corruption of undeath.
3143|Poracha|Porachas are feline beasts native to the mystical Forest of Spirits in Tian Xia. In their natural form, these graceful eight-legged creatures sport a gray tabby coat of fur streaked with lines of olive green, but they are rarely seen this way. Even the youngest porachas are capable of hiding within objects, making them incredibly elusive and rarely seen except on their own terms. Because porachas can so effortlessly blend in with the forest and emerge from its dark corners in an instant, superstitious locals believe these beasts are related to 
3173|Satyr|To a satyr, life is a party and everyone is invited. Notorious for their hedonism, these fey believe there's no greater beauty than can be found in song, drink, indulgent meals, and carnal pleasures. Satyrs use their enchanting songs and natural charm to encourage all manner of people to follow their true desires and free themselves from society's rules. This usually involves enticing mortals to join raucous parties or engage in trysts in moonlit glades. If a potential companion rejects a satyr's advances, however, the satyr has little interest in continuing a conversation and goes off to find more amenable revelers.
3174|Scarecrow|A ramshackle collection of materials in a human shape, the scarecrow construct is indistinguishable from a normal scarecrow until it slowly creaks to life. As it animates, its carved pumpkin or sackcloth face bursts into eldritch flame, sending fear creeping into the air around it. Each scarecrow is handcrafted and unique in its appearance, though most are 5 to 6 feet tall and constructed of a combination of wood, cloth, rope, straw, sawdust, discarded husks and cobs, and similar materials, all dressed in ragged pastoral garments. This rudimentary construction makes a scarecrow somewhat fragile, prone to snapping limbs in the crush of battle. Yet its structure is adaptable, allowing it to reshape another piece of itself into a clawed limb or grip a severed portion of itself to swat at its foes.
3176|Scorpion Swarm|While a single scorpion is itself a menace, swarms of these vermin can be outright devastating. These skittering droves of death swiftly bring down their prey before devouring everything short of the victim's bones.
3186|Shadow|The mysterious undead known as shadows lurk in dark places and feed on those who stray too far from the light.
3212|Pixie|Insatiably curious, overly excitable, and just a bit puckish, pixies are wanderers and tricksters who use their pixie dust to create all sorts of whimsical situations, as well as to defend themselves. They take great pride in their skill at archery, even when not using their arrows to deliver magical ailments. They often practice by shooting drops of dew or severing vines and hairs. Other creatures often have trouble understanding a pixie's rapid, rambling way of speaking.
3224|Vampire Servitor|Vampires use their servitor pawns for infiltration and reconnaissance.
3234|Wasp Swarm|Wasp nests are made of chewed wood fibers foraged from the surrounding flora, which the wasps make into a material similar to paper. A single wasp nest can house thousands of individuals that emerge as a massive swarm. Most swarms attack only to protect their nest or if otherwise agitated, though druids and other primal enchanters can bend these venomous vermin to their will—to deadly effect.
3238|Weretiger|These ferocious werecreatures stalk prey with the cunning and skill of a true apex predator. Weretigers typically view all life as a potential meal. Powerful nocturnal hunters with excellent senses that help them ambush prey, weretigers are adaptable to an extreme range of environments. However, weretigers living in densely populated cities (potentially as courtesans, assassins, or guild leaders) often struggle to suppress their killer instincts, becoming overwhelmed by the urge to hunt.
3253|Almiraj|An almiraj closely resembles a yellow hare in almost all ways... except for the 2-foot-long black horn jutting from its forehead. Though it shares this trait with the docile 
3267|Morthak|Morthaks, being low, squat, and flat, resemble a crocodile rebuilt to dig like a mole. At home beneath vast meadows and plains, the only sign of their passing are the earthen mounds they leave behind when they emerge to hunt. Those who encounter them in the wild speak of the sub-aural rumble they produce as they disintegrate the earth with sonic blasts, a sound that's felt rather than heard.
3272|Ghost Ape|Ghost apes are reclusive and territorial creatures that usually reveal themselves only when their homes are threatened. Most ghost apes will first attempt to use their imposing presence and natural teleportation to frighten and confuse their foes into fleeing. Ghost apes can speak but aren't particularly talkative, though they will, on rare occasions, treat with those who approach them with respect. Ghost apes can be powerful allies when motivated by a common cause, although they tend to be suspicious of outsiders, and their trust isn't easily earned.
3278|Giant Fangtooth|A single bite from this creature's signature fangs can cause death by blood loss within minutes; what's worse, the giant fangtooth is willing to attack creatures far larger than itself.
3289|Hexworm|These gray larvae inch across the ground with an instinct to feed on magic.
3291|Holdfast|A sleek body, large talons, and keen senses make the holdfast an expert hunter, far deadlier than its small size might indicate. It typically approaches prey from below, then pounces in a flurry of teeth and talons, trying to crush the target's windpipe with its powerful jaws. This ambush strategy is further aided by its dappled gray fur, camouflaging it against the rocky terrain of its native habitat. Today, holdfasts have spread far, often because of 
3301|Marp|While many creatures hunger after gold, the blue-furred marp literally eats this precious metal as a vital part of their diet. Although a few marp families live near natural gold deposits, most sources of gold are already under some other creature's control. Therefore, marps generally survive by ingratiating themselves to those creatures. Once they have inured themselves with such a group, they will gather all the gold they can get.
3302|Mjolgat|Over the millennium that they mined the rich mineral deposits of the Shattered Range, the 
3306|Leopard Seal|Leopard seals are a large species of seals, often growing up to ten feet long. They're the only species of seal known to pursue humanoids.
3324|Wereshark|The curse of the wereshark in stills a crude and bloodthirsty attitude, along with an urge to travel the sea. They often become pirates or military sailors who quickly gain a reputation for capricious violence. The shark within makes weresharks born survivors. They will swiftly retreat if they're truly in danger and consider obeying a sense of honor utterly ridiculous.
3330|Glorkus|Recall Knowledge - Undead
3332|Divine Warden Of Haagenti|Recall Knowledge - Construct
3335|Gurlunk|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
2296|Bloom Cultist|This creature did not include a description.
2448|Kareq|A kareq looks like a cross between a dinosaur and an insect. The kareq's torso extends back into a bulbous abdomen like an ant's.
2459|Kvernknurr|Kvernknurrs are lanky 
2464|Sage Guide|Sage spirit guides are among the wisest spirits. They often take the forms of raptors such as owls, using their keen senses to evaluate situations from high above before swooping in to aid imperiled mortals.
2501|Elder Thing|The typical elder thing is a scientist first and anything else second, but they don't hesitate to use force to achieve their needs or defend their laboratories. When one does deign to speak to a non-elder thing, it's either out of fear (for a creature they know vastly outstrips their own power) or with an insufferable sense of narcissistic superiority and impatience, like how an arrogant professor might speak to a student struggling with what they perceive to be a simple concept.
1954|Trapjaw Tangle|Sometimes the best intentions result in dire consequences and even a successful project can turn into an unending nightmare. Such is the grim tale of the first trapjaw tangles. These mechanical swarms were initially created as a solution to the pestilence of mutated rodents that plagued Alkenstar. These mobile rat traps, bound together by a magical matrix of occult energy, were programmed to wait in ambush or chase down their prey. The first trapjaw tangles proved effective and their creators were well rewarded for their ingenious designs. Soon trapjaw tangles were deployed throughout Alkenstar, Martel, and the Gunworks. Waves of them would be sent to roam into the Spellscar Desert, and the ever-present vermin were quickly forgotten.
1989|Mutant Bat|This creature did not include a description.
2018|Xulgath Demon-Caller|This creature did not include a description.
2059|Animated Fireplace|This creature did not include a description.
2064|Meat Guardian|This creature did not include a description.
2065|Mechanical Laborer|This creature did not include a description.
2087|Hollow Husks|This creature did not include a description.
2172|Hymmir Urath|This creature did not include a description.
2175|Dismemberment Table|This creature did not include a description.
2178|Albino Giant Bat|This creature did not include a description.
2181|Forge-Spurned|Evil 
2233|Old Crackjaw|This creature did not include a description.
82|Cloaker|Weird and paranoid creatures that dwell in the Darklands, cloakers resemble hideous, flying manta rays. Crafty and careful hunters, their motivations, their patterns of attack, and even their societies and history are often an inscrutable jumble of contradicting reports, confused rumors, and terrifying accounts.
96|Deep Gnome Rockwarden|Deep gnome rockwardens follow druidic teachings and commune with the natural elemental influences and denizens of the Darklands. They know that not everything that lives below ground is sinister and evil, but they also understand that all primal spirits and entities must be respected.
203|Ether Spider|Ether spiders are deadly predators from the Ethereal Plane resembling giant arachnids. Rather than building webs of silk, ether spiders shape the raw essence of the Ethereal Plane, weaving it in complex patterns that drift through the misty void. From these ethereal nests, whole families of ether spiders can scout the adjacent Material Plane, watching for easy prey in dark or remote corners of the land of mortals. Once an ether spider has spotted a meal, it anchors its nest and waits on the Ethereal Plane for its prey to draw near. As soon as its victim is within reach, the ether spider shifts to the Material Plane, clamps its fangs onto its prey, then shifts back to the Ethereal Plane to wait as its venom works through the creature’s system. Ether spiders move between the planes with ease, making them extremely dangerous to those who cannot see or attack ethereal enemies.
227|Gibbering Mouther|Amorphous blobs of yammering mouths and oozing, fleshy sludge, gibbering mouthers are among the strangest creatures found either aboveground or below. Perpetually ravenous, these aberrations are always seeking their next meals, ever eating but never sated. With a nominal intelligence, gibbering mouthers can understand and even speak Aklo, but they do so in an intelligible manner only rarely. Instead, their innumerable mouths constantly jabber and babble in a stream of sound that disrupts the thought patterns of other creatures in the area.
344|Dandasuka|Known as “biters” among the more powerful rakshasa castes, dandasukas serve as spies and assassins for rakshasa clans or powerful spellcasters who have found methods to bind one of these fiends to their will. Born to manipulate and murder, these half-sized terrors revel in their work and delight in the sight of blood. They often dress in extravagant clothes dyed with ostentatious colors and wear numerous elaborate accessories, whether in their true form or in disguise as human children, halfling merchants, or anything else that helps them blend into their targeted society.
502|Flea Swarm|Flea swarms roil across city streets and rural hinterlands in a hissing, scraping scrabble, draining blood from any creatures unfortunate enough to cross their path.
511|Muse Phantom|For performers who die before their time and whose love of the theater is stronger than death’s grasp, the show does indeed go on. Such actors rise from the grave to become muse phantoms—undead spirits that haunt opera houses or auditoriums and possess the bodies of living actors to continue their art.
513|Lion Visitant|Scars and other marks of obvious mistreatment are the clearest indicators that an undead animal is no mere zombie.
514|Xulgath Spinesnapper|Xulgath physiological diversity doesn’t always imply drastic change; some xulgaths are simply much larger and stronger than their clutchmates. Most xulgaths call such siblings spinesnappers, though terms like bonebreaker, marrowvent, or similarly violent epithets are equally common. A typical spinesnapper is 9 feet tall and weighs 350 pounds.
567|Polar Bear|Polar bears are known for their pale fur, with black eyes, lips, and toe pads. They are aggressively predatory creatures, stalking prey for miles on land or across the icy waters of frozen oceans. They are also amazing ambush predators, leaping from the water to ambush seals resting on ice floes. If they are desperate, polar bears hunt not only other animals but also humanoids.
683|Ice Golem|Ice golems are either carved from massive blocks of ice, or pieced together from individual components that are then fused together through heat and refreezing. In most cases, the resulting shape is little more than a crude approximation of a humanoid form, but given the right talent, an ice golem could be an exquisitely carved statue of a mythical creature, famous persona, or even a deity.
699|Hippopotamus|Typical adult hippos move quickly on land and attack stealthily in the water. Though herbivorous, hippos are notoriously aggressive and territorial.
726|Lurker In Light|These malicious and strange fey appear as fairies about 2 feet tall, with insectile wings, large eyes, and bulbous heads. They slaughter and cause mischief in a pattern only their alien intellect understands, but they've been seen to take particular umbrage against dwarves, gnomes, and creatures who live in darkness. With their grudges and pursuit of their own wicked and sadistic whims, lurkers in light deftly overturn the conventional wisdom that creatures associated with light are benign and friendly.
735|Bog Mummy|The cultural practice of mummifying the dead is not the only way a body can become preserved, nor is it the only route that gives rise to these disease-spreading undead monstrosities.
771|Dig-Widget|Thieves covet dig-widgets, specialized constructs built for infiltration. Each dig-widget contains numerous simple tools, including a set of mechanical devices that function as 
808|Emperor Cobra|These aggressive serpents infest bogs and lowlands. Despite a length of over 16 feet and weighing over 200 pounds, they can climb trees in seconds. An emperor cobra wards off predators by flaring its hood and hissing at its attacker.
814|Ogre Spider|These terrifying creatures grow as large as elephants. The placement of their eyes above their wide mandibles evokes the grimacing visage of an ogre's leer. 
1045|Gibtas Bounder|A full-grown gibtas uses its powerful legs and rubbery body to bound great distances. Most gibtases remain solitary, unless bonded with a creature.
1083|Bore Worm Swarm|A single finger-length bore worm is unpleasant but mostly innocuous. Ten thousand bore worms, on the other hand, pose a formidable threat to even seasoned adventurers. The countless worms form a roiling, rancid mass of acid and pain, capable of delivering a hideous death to any person or beast unable to escape them. Unfortunately for any creature other than a bore worm, most encounters involve swarms.
1087|Caligni Vanguard|Caligni children born without eyes—an extremely rare occurrence—are considered sacred to their communities. From a young age, they're set aside and groomed to become caligni vanguards, dedicated to rigorous martial training and mental strictures. Other calignis revere vanguards' discipline and combat skill, but wary caution always tinges such respect, as they often have inscrutable motives. Vanguards almost never rebel against their duties or their established role in the community; some claim that those who do are taken by the owbs.
1107|Giant Hermit Crab|Lucky hermit crabs with plentiful resources can live for decades and grow to tremendous sizes, often with magical help. Too large for most natural shells, giant hermit crabs use a variety of debris instead, including wagons, boats, treasure chests, and even abandoned pieces of giant armor.
1150|Eunemvro|Eunemvros wander the 
1152|Spiny Eurypterid|Spiny eurypterids are aggressive, tenacious, and utterly unwilling to stop chasing prey, even to their own detriment. These creatures are covered with countless needle-like spikes and can grow to rival the size of ocean mammals like orcas. Sailors often find them clinging to the hulls of ships, as spiny eurypterids mistake them for prey and are too stubborn to let go.
1244|Namorrodor|Namorrodor stalk the night, craving the flesh of the living. Though they dwell on the 
1249|Lampad|Lampads protect dark, hidden places underground. Not only do they defend subterranean caverns from threats, but they also safeguard well-meaning innocents from the dangers that lurk below the surface. Lampads are so-named for the wisps of magic light they often carry, guiding the lost to safety while luring threats to their doom. Lampads' mercurial nature makes their reactions difficult to predict, though they rarely demonstrate outright malice without sufficient provocation.
1298|Harpy Skeleton|A live harpy's song is compelling and captivating; a harpy skeleton's is anything but, rending the target's mind.
1305|Skinstitch|Skinstitches' hulking frames are made from flayed humanoid skin stuffed with straw and poisonous insects. The dark god 
1314|Megatherium|Megatheriums dwell deep within ancient forests and humid jungles. Fiercely territorial, these immense creatures are often smelt before seen. Though they travel on all fours, megatheriums can reach foliage 20 feet above the forest floor by standing on their hind legs and short, thick tails. Their enormous foreclaws, used to bend tree limbs within reach of their mouths, can cleave a horse in two and crush its rider.
1317|Hieracosphinx|Lacking the intelligence of their kin, falcon-headed hieracosphinxes are cowardly, cruel-hearted creatures. They guard their territory ruthlessly against weaker intruders.
1368|Wizard Sponge|This strange type of fungus colony takes its name from its initial purpose: the wizard who first developed it sought a means to keep her tower clean from residue both mundane and magical. Wizard sponge does just that, dutifully cleaning its vicinity by devouring dust, organic debris, and even the decaying bodies of fallen creatures. Its designer intentionally crafted the fungus to not merely resist but be healed by fire, intended as an additional safety feature, and most varieties have a convenient side effect of being edible once slain. Unfortunately, the fungus also developed an unexpected ability to magically mutate over time, which eventually led to its escape and independent propagation.
1401|Sigbin|Resembling hornless goats with extremely long tails, sigbins live in forests and prey on inhabitants of nearby humanoid villages. Sigbins drink the blood of their victims by biting into their shadows, rather than their flesh. This process typically leaves the victim so fatigued that they must lie down to rest, at which point the sigbin finishes the job by sinking their jaws into the person's chest and consuming their heart.
1437|Karina|Karinas—also known as plague birds—are large owl-like creatures with dark red feathers, powerful talons, and unsettling eyes. Their broad wings conceal a pair of wiry humanoid arms that end in clawed fingers, which they use to dig through burial sites in search of corpses. The fell purpose of this is still a mystery, though most believe that karinas make off with these dead bodies to consume them in the safety of their lairs. The difficulty of tracking the beasts, as well as the danger, makes it difficult to know for sure.
1440|Rompo|Rompos are unusual creatures that feed on corpses. They have thin, almost-skeletal bodies with strong rear legs that resemble a bear's, front legs like a badger's, and a head like a hare's with humanoid ears. A rompo tends to be timid on its own; it avoids other creatures and typically flees in the presence of larger animals. Though no more intelligent than any other beast, it usually acts with extreme paranoia, dodging traps or ambushes with an uncanny acumen. When danger is present, a rompo utters a loud cry to afford itself space to run and hides by using its body's natural color-shifting fur as camouflage.
1742|Temteki|Though it superficially resembles a cypress tree and is easily mistaken for an arboreal or other similar plant creature, Temteki is actually an earth elemental, a creature of living earth and stone. In normal situations, Temteki is content to remain still and blend into the jungle when observing other creatures, using its natural camouflage to assist in harrying those it considers interlopers disturbing its home. Temteki usually dissuades such intruders with a combination of surprise attacks and nonlethal snares; the elemental is more interested in getting them to leave than in dealing them any permanent harm. However, to those who prove determined to harm Temteki or its home, Temteki can be an implacable foe. Temteki's asymmetrical gait and appearance often alarm and confuse creatures who aren't expecting to spot it, especially since it's surprisingly stealthy for its size and appearance.
1782|Skeletal Woolly Rhinoceros|This creature did not include a description.
1790|Venexus's Wyrmlings|This creature did not include a description.
1843|Bone Croupier|For many, gambling is just fun and games, but for some, it can become a bad habit or even a life-consuming addiction. Bone croupiers take the meaning of “life-consuming” to its literal extreme. These gamblers' lust for cards and dice couldn't be sated in life, so in undeath they haunt the shadowy corners of gambling halls and continue their search for that next hit of adrenaline.
2531|Sand Wolf|A sand wolf is an elemental creature which dwells in the sandy deserts of elemental earth that drift to, or have been conjured on, the 
2538|Mechanical Assistant|This creature did not include a description.
2613|Tuom Molgrade|This creature did not include a description.
2648|Rust Scarab|These elementals resemble enormous beetles, with thick outer shells composed of multiple layers of heavily pockmarked, rusted plates protecting a jagged metallic skeleton.
2663|Murajau|Murajaus, one of many nomadic creatures of the 
2674|Living Grove|A living grove is a singular connected entity, with dozens of genetically identical trunks united within the same root system. At rest, a living grove resembles nothing so much as a small arboretum of birch and aspen trees, though oak and redwood varieties that are significantly larger and tougher exist as well.
2690|Rakkatak|Pulsating organs and tumors squirm loosely within a sac of skin, all forming the misshapen lump that is the body of a rakkatak. The predator's eyes scan the area, shimmering in the smoke like glowing dots. Wriggling insectoid legs—varying in number from one rakkatak to another—hang from its bulbous body. These limbs flail chaotically as a rakkatak fights, only calming when it's time to eat or rest.
2697|Hagegraf Royal Guard|While the city guards patrol the Long Walk, the royal guards protect King Orgukagan and the royal family, as well as important royal interests.
2698|Hryngar King's Agent|Involved in both domestic security and international espionage, the agents of King Orgukagan's secret police are skilled at capturing enemies for interrogation, infiltrating rival organizations, and fighting without weapons. When the king takes special interest in a project, event, or individual, he sends one of his specially trained agents to handle the situation.
2724|Stone Spider|The tradition of venerating spiders as wards against vermin, pests, and evil in general far predates the modern 
2727|Vloriak (Despoiler Demon)|Vloriaks rise from the sinful souls of those whose acts of sabotage resulted in despair and terror, and they delight in the destruction of mortal artifice. Often called despoiler demons, vloriaks were the followers of Xar-Azmak. Their numbers have dwindled over the eons since the Lord of Rust's death; those that exist now are scattered throughout the 
2825|Army Ant Swarm|An army ant swarm is a terrifying carpet of stinging insects that devours all in its path.
2859|Bogwid|The abhorrent combination between a toad and an octopus, a bogwid drags its bloated green body through the swamps in search of a meal for the many larvae it carries on its back. Despite its absurd appearance and its pervasive scent, a bogwid is an ambush hunter. It will hide itself in sand, vegetation, or whatever happens to be around and wait patiently until a larger creature, such as a humanoid or a crocodile, approaches, before it attacks. A desperate bogwid may even attack a small group in search of food for both it and its young. Once it has a suitably large corpse, the larvae on its back will leap onto it and begin fighting each other for their one chance at survival. The remaining larva buries itself in the body and begins devouring it over the next couple of weeks. Afterward, a fully grown bogwid emerges from what is left of the rotting corpse. Within a week of its new life, the young bogwid too will begin asexually producing larvae on its back, repeating the cycle.
2886|Giant Crawling Hand|A giant crawling hand is the appendage of a very large creature, such as a 
2889|Cyclops|The kingdoms of the cyclopes date to an age before the rise of humanity, when dragons and giants and serpentfolk ruled the world. The cyclopes built enormous stone cities and prayed to ancient gods of brutality and wrath, but their power to foresee the future failed them and their civilization collapsed. Today, most cyclopes have virtually no knowledge of the former glory of their kind, even though it is not uncommon for them to dwell among the ruins of their greatness. Cyclops cities include monuments and imposing murals which depict their peoples' history, but few now among them can read or interpret these relics of the past.
2927|Orca|While many know orcas as “killer whales,” they're actually the largest species of dolphin. These powerful animals hunt together in pods to take down seals, sharks, and even whales. Adult orcas are typically 15–25 feet long and weigh 8,000–12,000 pounds.
2959|Flame Drake|Flame drakes dwell near volcanoes and magma, but it's not unheard of for one to drift into nearby areas like forests or wooded hills. Their scales are usually some shade of red, occasionally fading to smoky blacks and grays along the edges of their wings and the tips of their tails.
2971|Giant Moray Eel|Giant moray eels dwell in warm, tropical waters and build lairs in narrow, twisting caves made of coral. Their size, speed, and powerful bite make them dangerous to divers and fishers. Giant moray eels have rubbery hides that secrete a layer of mucus, making them difficult to harm with some weapons.
2974|Living Whirlwind|A living whirlwind resembles a dust devil with a vague mouth and eyes formed among the dust and debris swirling within it.
2978|Living Landslide|Living landslides resemble humanoids made of earth and gravel. They find moving across the many surfaces of the mortal 
3089|Giant Frilled Lizard|Found in warm and tropical forests and savannas, these immense lizards are a deadly threat to the unsuspecting traveler. When they aren't sleeping or stalking prey, giant frilled lizards bask in the sunlight for hours at a time. Explorers sometimes mistakenly think they are related to dragons due to their large size, elaborate neck frills (which, when displayed in a show of aggression and dominance, can be mistaken for wings), and ferocious hissing vocalizations used to frighten away creatures too large to eat.
3145|Azuretzi|Azuretzis are sinuous, serpentine creatures with dagger-sharp teeth covered in brilliant blue scales and mottled purple and pink highlights that shimmer in a pareidolic approximation of leering, laughing faces. The Maelstrom's chaotic forces spawn these small proteans from a variety of sources: physical mating between older azuretzis, the paradoxical promotion of bestial naunets, and possibly from mortal petitioners, though these azuretzis may just be confusing putative mortal memories with experiences gained from games of mimicry. Never expect azuretzis to operate by any rational, self-consistent rules.
3227|Vescavor Swarm|The most common and numerous vescavors are the raving swarms. If left alone and unchecked, many believe they would eventually consume themselves once everything else in the immediate vicinity was consumed. What is even more vexing than their hunger is their song. While it sounds like gibberish at first, once bitten, the song will drive people into chaos.
3280|Sporeback Frog|This burrowing frog digs itself into moist earth so poisonous moss and toxic mushrooms can grow on its body.
3292|Hooplamander|Many a traveler has heard a loud rumble from behind and turned to see a strange wheel bearing down upon them. Even if they can dodge it, they still might not be safe, for once the wheel stops, it unfurls into a hooplamander. Though whispered of in the remote expanses of Arcadia and feared along the grassy plains of the Mwangi Expanse, many in urban areas believe the seemingly ridiculous hooplamanders to be nothing more than tall tales. As the flattened remains of many caravans can attest, however, these apex predators are very real.
3315|Taldan Cave Squirrel|Taldan cave squirrels, also known as tauhotis, are a curious cousin of the much smaller common ground squirrel, found anywhere with large, grassy flatlands. The creatures burrow underground, forming cave systems tall enough for giants in astonishingly little time. Once the caves are excavated, the squirrels turn their attention toward the largest quantities of gems or metals they can find—including those in the ground floors and vaults of nearby buildings. Nothing is off-limits, and no effort is too large when these squirrels go gem hunting.
3331|Statue Of Alaznist|Recall Knowledge - Construct
3333|Wolgur Wrabs|Recall Knowledge - Undead
3334|Tunch|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3345|Ascended Disciple|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
2383|Cleansed Cultist|This creature did not include a description.
2392|Ekundayo's Dog|Ekundayo 's
2460|Myroga|Myrogas are avaricious, simple-minded dragons with supernatural occult powers. They draw their amazing abilities from 
2465|Apothecary's Cabinet|This creature did not include a description.
2497|Blackfrost Zombie|Most creatures who perish from the cold while cursed with blackfrost rise as zombies. Though mindless, blackfrost zombies are driven by the invisible will of blackfrost to spread their foul curse.
1863|Hungry Ghost|Hungry ghosts arise from those who didn't receive proper burials or whose graves were neglected. They are not bound to a site or item but are compelled to see opportunities to commit good deeds in hopes of gaining favors that can aid them in achieving a final rest. Their need to feed on living energy often conflicts with this goal, however.
1870|Faithless Ecclesiarch|Faithless ecclesiarchs were powerful religious leaders in life—archpriests, hierarchs, oracles, and divine servitors personally blessed by their deities. They are adept at corrupting the pious and inspiring their fellow herexens, often becoming leaders among their kind. This faithless ecclesiarch once worshipped 
1878|Little Man in the Woods|A murdered man left unburied in the wilds might return as a being called a “little man in the woods,” his decayed corpse shriveling until it shrinks to the size of a child. Denied the respect of a burial that would smooth his spirit's transition to the afterlife, he is unable to leave the mortal plane and enter the realm of the spirits. Forgotten, lost, and miserable, suffering from unbearable hunger and cold, the little man in the woods is desperate to return to his mortal home and be laid to rest properly.
1902|Beetle Carapace|Created from the exoskeleton of a 
1985|Zombie, Shock|Shock zombies are hideous undead covered with bolts and electrical wiring. Most have two large electric coils mounted on their backs to absorb and project electricity. If uncontrolled, shock zombies often wander far afield in search of inventors' labs or lightning storms to draw power from. In a pinch, the natural electric currents inside living creatures more than suffice. 
2069|Iron Taviah, Shadow-Weaving Annis Hag|Iron Taviah doesn't remember where her story begins. Old even for an annis hag, who can live exceptionally long lives, she wandered south of the Inner Sea for over a century. Ruthazek, the Gorilla King, occasionally bartered for her services, trading her prisoners and rare alchemical ingredients. For decades, she kept a floating hut built on the corpse of a megalodon in the Sodden Lands. Eventually members of the Magaambya had enough of her villainy and drove Taviah from the Mwangi Expanse. Wounded, she fled east through the Mana Wastes. Repelled by the golem guardians of Nex, she turned south to Geb.
2081|Shimmernewt|Native to the coastal provinces of eastern Holomog, these strange amphibians have frilled, iridescent gills that appear asymmetrically on either side of their bodies. Random arrays of spots, stripes, and other patterns decorate their flanks, and it's said no two shimmernewts have the same coloration. Originally, shimmernewts were ordinary (if oversized) amphibians, living their lives between brackish coastal lakes or tidal pools and the steamy jungles nearby. Over time, the ambient chaotic energies flowing through Holomog magically altered their evolution. The shimmernewts of today barely resemble their ancestors.
2270|The Lonely Warrior|This creature did not include a description.
89|Ceustodaemon (Guardian Daemon)|Ceustodaemons are formed from the souls of vile mortals, particularly those who took efforts to hasten their own death, their willingness shaping them into daemonic servants. Their otherworldly senses make them useful for protecting vaults and similar locations on the Material Plane. Ceustodaemons are created to serve, but always seek ways to subvert their bindings, so they can rend their mortal summoners’ flesh. The worst type of conjurer calls upon ceustodaemons merely to set them free into the world in hopes of currying favor with the powers of Abaddon.
139|Young White Dragon|The most feral and least intelligent of all the chromatic dragons, white dragons are brutish, predatory, and chiefly motivated by self-preservation. Nearly all other dragons look down on white dragons as hopelessly hotheaded and dull, though this does not make them any less dangerous—in fact, it may mean the opposite. It’s nearly impossible to treat with white dragons, not because they lack the capacity to do so, but because they just don’t care to. They are as difficult to deal with as they are quick to anger, and they become incensed at almost anything. When a white dragon does speak, it spews threats, inane jokes, and incoherent babbling as a prelude to attacking—and when the attack comes, it’s bloody and relentless.
204|Ettin|Two heads aren’t always better than one. The slovenly, violent giants known as ettins are proof enough of that.
207|Drider|The first fleshwarping process mastered by the drow remains both their most successful and most infamous: the drider. Fusing the body of a drow with that of a giant spider, driders are a sexually dimorphic fleshwarp—the only fleshwarp known to be able to produce young. While female driders have the upper torsos of elegant drow women with mouths featuring sharp poisoned fangs, male driders have hideous, mutated countenances that further blend the humanoid form with that of a spider; the difference in appearance is perhaps a reflection on the matriarchal nature of drow society. In combat, all driders are equally dangerous.
256|Annis Hag|Annis hags are brutal torturers and murderers, delighting in the musical screams and tasty flesh of young creatures and those who are pure of heart. Annis hags are the most direct of all hags, engaging in physical combat and using their change shape ability to hunt rather than to infiltrate and betray humanoids. But an Annis hag takes a grisly trophy from each kill and uses it to sow discord, sending the trophy to one of her victim’s loved ones in a way that implicates another family member in the murder. Also known as iron hags, annis hags have iron-like yet flexible flesh that resists edged weapons, and their own touch is the same cold iron that burns the flesh of other hags. This allows them to bully their way to the leadership of hag covens.
360|Sea Devil Baron|Unlike in many cultures, the highest-ranking sea devils are expected not just to wade into battle alongside their brethren, but to actively lead the campaign.
364|Shambler|Shamblers are cunning carnivorous plants that resemble heaps of wet, rotting vegetation. Even when standing erect on their stumpy legs, shamblers don’t have much in the way of identifiable anatomy; they are tangles of parasitic vines that lash out at prey with their longest creepers, entwined together to deliver powerful blows. Sometimes called “shambling mounds,” these ambush predators have a particular fondness for flesh, and are most well known for their ability to hunker down and hide in plain sight. A shambler can draw nutrients from plant matter or soil, but won’t do so if it suspects meat might soon wander near, and indeed may lie in wait for days in anticipation of such a meal.
454|Blood Boar|Blood boars are fearsome swine bred in Cheliax for the singular purpose of hunting down escaped slaves. The species originated from a type of large feral boar native to Nidal’s shadowy Uskwood, and blood boars retain their predecessors’ gray fur, red eyes, and exceptional senses. The intensive breeding process to produce blood boars—augmented by the selective application of magic—grants the creatures an unparalleled awareness of blood, including the ability to precisely detect a bloodied creature’s location and movements, allowing the boars to track their prey from up to a mile away.
508|Bugaboo|After devouring enough souls, a bogey transforms into the more powerful and sophisticated bugaboo.
559|Bralani (Wind Azata)|Bralanis embody the freedom of fair competition, embracing opportunities to test their skills against worthy foes and bring mortals together with the thrill of good-natured sports and contests. Their interest in constructive conflict also extends to higher stakes, such as diplomatic negotiations. In these cases, bralanis ensure that neither side's desires are crushed by the other's and work as mediators when needed. They believe in friendly contests to diffuse tension. When discussions are going well, bralanis step back, allowing the participants to shape their own futures. They delight in sailing through violent storms as wind, basking in the raw energy.
598|Babau (Blood Demon)|The babau is an assassin, a murderer, and a sadist—certainly not unusual traits, yet their penchant for stealth and surprise sets them apart from their kin. Babaus form from mortal souls of lone killers—those who took pleasure in more personal murders, and particularly those with grisly patterns to their killings.
616|Iguanodon|Iguanodons are large, herbivorous dinosaurs that inhabit swamps and forests where they browse on the abundant vegetation. The iguanodon is capable of moving on two feet or on four, quickly switching from one stance to the other depending on whether it needs to move through dense foliage or to reach delectable morsels hanging up in the canopy.
641|Sea Drake|Long and slender, sea drakes have fins down the length of their backs and webbing between their talons, making them just as adapted for gliding through ocean waves as the skies above. More solitary than most drakes, they hunt and live alone. Although most sea drakes make their roosts high on ocean-facing cliffs, it isn't unheard of for them to dwell in underwater caves, living entirely aquatic lives.
648|Belker|These reclusive elementals have glowing red eyes, leathery wings, and long, sharp claws. While they always retain their shape, belkers can control the solidity of their forms at will, transforming into clouds of smoke, ash, and dust.
657|Striding Fire|An embodiment of the speed and chaos of a spreading blaze, a striding fire appears as a lithe and long-limbed humanoid composed of shifting-hued flames churning within a skeleton-like framework.
665|Blizzardborn|Freezing and thawing in a near-constant loop, blizzardborn resemble humanoid forms composed of a mixture of partially melted snow and sleet. These elementals move with crunching strides, their bodies constantly sloshing and sloughing off shards of ice. Because of their ability to refreeze, blizzardborn can travel into warmer environments safely, though they tend to look more like slush in these areas.
684|Wood Golem|Wood golems are often given vaguely humanoid shapes, almost as if cobbled together from scraps of firewood and discarded burls. It's less common for wood golems to have artistic embellishments such as engraved patterns, or to be carved in the shapes of different types of creatures to meet the tastes of their owners. While wealthy patrons have been known to commission wood golems to be painstakingly carved to resemble themselves or their ancestors, to serve dual purposes of protection and ego bolstering, most wood golem crafters don't bother. Druids and creatures who protect woodlands, such as arboreals, typically see wood golems as an affront or an abomination, akin to the horror humanoids often feel when facing a carrion or flesh golem. As a result, it is rare to see such creatures serving as guardians for fey or druidic holy sites, despite the thematic match between the wood golem's appearance and such locations.
701|Hodag|Because they are often described only in drunken retellings of loggers' or miners' tales, hodags are considered by many to exist only in the local folklore of remote areas. However, some individuals have actually encountered these dangerous beasts firsthand, and even fewer have lived to tell their tales.
706|Fire Jellyfish Swarm|While individually one of these fist-sized jellyfish is merely a nuisance, in great numbers, fire jellyfish can form into dangerous swarms. Bobbing in the water, they create a cloud of stinging tentacles. They were named in part for their bright coloration, but those who are stung by fire jellyfish learn the larger reason for their name—the pain of their stings is comparable to being burned alive.
733|Giant Mosquito|These horrifically enlarged versions of the common mosquito often prey upon megafauna like dinosaurs and other large creatures, but they won't turn down a chance to drink the blood of a smaller target—such as a humanoid.
736|Lunar Naga|Lunar nagas are skilled diviners and astrologers whose dark scales and white hair sparkle with motes of light that mimic the night skies to which they are forever drawn. While they are less physically imposing than other nagas, they possess a graceful beauty that many find entrancing, even without the help of the naga's inherent magical abilities. Earning a lunar naga's trust is difficult, but not impossible, especially for someone who shares the creature's interest in the celestial sphere.
754|Verdurous Ooze|Verdurous oozes are found in temperate forests, warm jungles, or other places where plant life grows in abundance. Unlike many types of oozes, verdurous oozes are not particularly good climbers and have been known to get trapped in natural or artificial chasms. Warlords and wizards sometimes make use of that fact and keep verdurous oozes as guardians in pits around the walls of their fortresses or towers.
797|Scythe Tree|Malevolent, vicious, and cruel, scythe trees pose as normal trees near deep forest paths, where they wait to slaughter passersby. Instead of drawing sustenance from light and soil, scythe trees gorge themselves on the flesh, blood, and bone of sapient creatures. Nothing is more delectable to scythe trees than a kind-hearted gnome or an altruistic 
804|Skrik Nettle|The expansive skies of the 
832|Cavern Troll|Insatiable scavengers stalking the eternal gloom of the Darklands, cavern trolls consume all in their path—even rocks and minerals when more nourishing sustenance is scarce. These rocky goliaths can tunnel through stone with their iron-sharp claws.
842|Vrykolakas Spawn|Vrykolakas unleash their spawn upon the world to spread terror, plague, and suffering and to draw attention away from their masters.
849|Evangelist|Evangelists, the velstracs' unofficial ambassadors, roam the farthest reaches of the planes to spread the word of their kind's abhorrent belief in perfection through pain. They are therefore the most frequently encountered velstracs on the Material Plane, leading covens of hedonistic mortal flesh-sculptors or serving as wardens of horrific dungeons. In regions ruled by infernal powers, evangelists may serve as lieutenants or advisors, whispering secret paths to power in exchange for mortal's souls or choice mortal flesh. Evangelists are the same size as humans, although with the heavy chains that always drape their forms, they often weigh 350 pounds or more.
989|Bone Skipper Swarm|A large swarm of bone skippers can reduce a human skeleton into dry, brittle fragments in a matter of hours.
997|Vaultbreaker Ooze|Though many oozes hunt among the dreary confines of underground caverns, dungeons, and abandoned ruins, others seek to quell their hunger in areas well-trafficked by civilized creatures. The aptly named vaultbreaker oozes exhibit a mindless compulsion to feed on and digest precious metals. When near precious metals, the ichor exuded from their metallic plasm tarnishes black and forms small, jagged crystals that dot the oozes' surface. Like a strange biological compass, these crystals point vaultbreaker oozes to their next meal.
1024|Kurnugian Jackal|Under specific planar conjunctions, 
1046|Gibtas Spawn Swarm|When a gibtas gorges itself on an incredible amount of flesh, it vomits up a pool of acid filled with tiny pink egg sacs that burst immediately. The new babies hunt as a pack, growing in size until they go their separate ways or consume each other.
1056|Vulpinal (Fox Agathion)|Vulpinals serve as the cunning and clever musicians and minstrels of the agathions. Incredibly far-ranging, these fox-like humanoids love traveling to learn and teach about all the unique songs, dances, myths, and traditions they can find. Though they prefer to travel alone, vulpinals are extremely gregarious toward those they meet on their journeys. They enjoy participating in the festivities of cultures they encounter, and they're known to form small traveling groups of like-minded individuals if they believe that their shared expertise can prove beneficial.
1075|Bauble Beast|The reclusive and deceptive creatures called bauble beasts create false jewelry as a byproduct of their extremely bizarre magical digestive systems. Two natural skin conditions provide the raw materials for this process: scaly patches of thin layers of metal, and warts that resemble gemstones. By chewing loose these patches and swallowing them, a bauble beast magically constructs the jewelry in its guts. After passing the forgery, it polishes and reshapes the item to make it more convincing. The beast then sneaks into a settlement to place the jewelry somewhere it can be found. A creature who dons this false jewelry is compelled to fetch their real valuables and deliver them to the beast, which it happily collects. Some bauble beasts simply send the confused victim on their way, but other more evil bauble beasts slay them to avoid being found out.
1215|Kurobozu|A 
1225|Maftet Guardian|Maftets are hawk-winged humanoids with leonine lower bodies that dwell in ancient ruins and cities thought lost, typically in desert or mountain regions. They view themselves as guardians and practice a specialized technique of dual-wielding scimitars so central to their culture that a maftet's scimitars are often cherished family heirlooms. Most maftets venerate their ancestors in addition to various deities, and even a child can detail their family lineage back multiple generations. Maftet prides tend to be matriarchal and isolationist, though maftets aren't necessarily hostile to outsiders who respect their homes and don't seek to loot them.
1257|Owb|Commonly called owbs, or lesser owbs by more powerful owb prophets, most of these mysterious creatures focus on manipulating caligni culture. Among calignis, an owb hides from mortals they deem beneath them—even including calignis in their charge. An owb prefers to select one caligni leader to control from the shadows, manipulating them using charisma and magic. Through coersion of such agents, owbs maintain a steady hand in the politics of the community, either blessing and breaking pacts with other creatures or acting as intermediaries and ambassadors between calignis and powerful external entities.
1282|Wihsaak|These gaunt and insectile sahkils torment their foes by focusing on a widespread fear of insects and creeping, crawling vermin. Unlike their more subtle cousins, wihsaaks don't lurk in the periphery and instead directly engage their targets, using their unnerving buzzing to disorient and terrify. When encountering multiple foes, wihsaaks attempt to spread fear to everyone before slashing at them with their devastating claws.
1306|Skull Peeler|Skull peelers, despite their ferocious and well-deserved moniker, are considered by many to be downright adorable, especially when viewed from a safe distance. Their soft, dappled brown fur helps them hide in forest canopies, and they have shimmering insectile wings and big eyes that draw in the faintest beams of light. At first glance, a skull peeler looks like a cuddly pet or a wizard's familiar. Any illusions of domesticating such a beast are quickly dismissed upon seeing how a skull peeler eats, however.
1332|Terra-Cotta Soldier|A single terra-cotta warrior stands 6 feet tall and weighs 600 pounds.
1351|Chouchin-Obake|A chouchin-obake takes the shape of a paper lantern with a horizontal split near the bottom from which a long tongue protrudes. Upon closer inspection, two eyes appear above the split mouth. Chouchin-obake are anomalous in that they don't awaken in the same way other tsukumogami do. Paper lanterns are nearly impossible to maintain for long enough to spawn tsukumogami. Instead, a chouchin-obake is a kind of fire 
1354|Umasi|Tales tell of strange humanoids who harvest appendages and organs from other creatures to graft onto their own perpetually decaying bodies. These stories are encountered more often than their subject, however. A reclusive people, umasi live deep in remote jungles, largely isolated from other societies.
1377|Sulfur Zombie|Glowing with a dull amber light, these odious creatures spawn from a combination of necromancy and fire. These destructive creations sow chaos and demolish fortifications, making them the bane of besieged cities.
1388|Urdefhan Death Scout|Death scouts train as spies and assassins for their cult. Other urdefhans scorn their stealthy methods, but none can argue with their results.
1424|Anadi Elder|Anadi elders help guide their kin and must make difficult decisions for their people, such as whether to continue hostile negotiations or to escalate a disagreement to outright conflict.
1426|Asanbosam|Asanbosams are monstrous, hairy humanoids with 
1626|Mpeshi|In the heights of the world, where the hills and mountains reach up to touch the clouds, mpeshis fall to the earth in flashes of lightning and thunder. Most return to the heavens on the gossamer strands of web on which they descend, but those few that remain cry out, lamenting their inability to return to their homes in the sky.
1633|Mutated Sewer Ooze|This creature did not include a description.
1636|Kreekoss|This creature did not include a description.
1656|Terwa Prodigy|Among the Terwa Lord clans, iruxis display immense, unrefined magical talent from a very young age. These abilities reveal themselves in a wide number of ways, but advanced spellcasting is the most common.
1731|Spawn Of Kothogaz|Kothogaz's
1734|Melfesh Monster|Each Melfesh Monster is unique at any given time since the parent fungus only gives birth to a single monster at once, and each of these creations works a little differently and looks a little different from the last. However, their forms all bear similarities. A twisting mass of creeping vines creates the bulk of a Melfesh Monster's body, sculpted into a towering figure that can glide effortlessly across the ground. Mossy growths and trumpeting fungi cover the creature like matted fur, dripping from its back and shoulders in excess. A hood of dampened bark and thick moss covers its face, revealing only a crusty wooden jaw and a pair of gleaming red eyes. An acrid stench of burning manure follows the creature, often serving as the only warning that anyone gets before it attacks.
1773|Bison, Long-Horned|Much like their smaller 
1813|Hora|While most nymphs bond with a natural feature, such as a tree, pool, or cave, horai are rare nymphs associated with a specific time—the summer or winter solstice—rather than a location. Horai erect simple astronomical calendars near their home, which they use to mark the moment when the sun reaches its highest or lowest point in the sky. An hora tied to the summer solstice grows more powerful as the sun reaches its height, while an hora tied to the winter solstice is sickly and weak. The opposite holds true for winter horai, who are weak in summer and strong in winter. Meanwhile, autumn and spring horai draw power near the autumnal and vernal equinoxes, becoming weaker around the opposite equinox. 
1817|Tar Zombie Snatcher|Humanoids consumed by a tar ooze become sticky warriors in the tar ooze's mindless procession. Some carry weapons.
2649|Living Lodestone|This rotating sphere of dark, shiny metal floats about 5 feet off the ground, constantly surrounded by a whirling frenzy of smaller metallic objects caught up in its powerful magnetic field.
2681|Kizidhar|The genies of the 
2691|Slime Puppeteer (Ungothol)|Early in the alghollthu's attempt to control the sapient creatures of Golarion, they created the ungothol to feed them information. These slime-covered creatures would infiltrate humanoid settlements and send back information to their masters using powerful telepathy. Over centuries, the slime puppeteers proved inferior compared to the more versatile 
2699|Hryngar Forgepriest|Abandoned by their cousins, the surface dwarves, hryngars were saved by 
2778|Orchid Mantis Swarm|Some mantises have unusually strong connections to elemental power. Though they lack the training to cultivate this energy, when orchid mantises gather at a place of abundant food or overflowing natural energy, they can bring trees to bloom in the depths of winter or turn any stretch of ground into a garden. Despite their beauty, gathering in large groups only seems to exacerbate the mantises' tempers. Although the mantises are individually harmless, anyone disturbing the countless false blossoms is likely to be recognized as food, no matter their size.
2830|Awakened Tree|Arboreal regents and other wielders of powerful primal magic grant temporary sentience to trees in order to protect the forest. Invested with a workable set of instincts and the ability to mobilize and attack, these awakened trees follow the commands of their master and fight to protect their home. The statistics below work just as well for foliage that has become animate via other methods, such as a mystical influence from another dimension, a capricious fey spirit, or the like.
2868|Smilodon|Smilodons are large saber-toothed cats, apex predators that are significantly more muscular and broader than the other species of big cats. They often kill prey with a quick stab to the throat or other vulnerable spot. The smilodon's oversized fangs are particularly sought after as trophies.
2919|Ankylosaurus|Squat, heavily armored quadrupeds, ankylosauruses are stubborn and irascible. Although they're herbivores, ankylosauruses have been known to attack trespassers simply out of ill temper. Ankylosauruses have few natural predators, as their bony hides are covered in spiked nubs that jut in many different directions to discourage larger creatures from biting them. An ankylosaurus is about 30 feet long, 10 feet tall at the shoulder, and weighs over 3 tons.
2928|Rhu-Chalik (Void Wanderer)|Also called void wanderers, rhu-chaliks can survive the depths of space indefinitely, passing between worlds over the eons and scouting those planets for the Dominion of the Black. Rhu-chaliks prefer to work alone in order to reduce potential overlap in their mental predations, but sometimes receive assistance from those who believe the transmission of memories is transcendent. The furtive beings are calculating and infinitely patient, seeking only the most exceptional minds to cast beyond the stars to their masters.
2961|Wyvern|A wyvern is a venomous drake with a well-earned reputation for impatience and aggression. As much as 15 feet long and weighing up to 1,000 pounds, a wyvern's resilient body allows them to crash talons-first into large prey without serious risk to themself. A wyvern uses their momentum to stun their target before injecting it with searing venom or carrying it over the side of a nearby cliff. Because a wyvern lacks the strength to haul their prey all the way to their nest intact, they're far more likely to lift and drop their victim over a gully or canyon and let gravity do its work before they descend to pick apart the carcass.
3077|Lamia|Just as they were cursed long ago, lamias can inflict a curse on those they touch, clouding the victim's mind and pushing conscious thought toward animalistic instincts. Creatures affected by this curse grow reckless, becoming unaware of the consequences of their own actions. This makes the hapless victim all the more susceptible to the lamia's cunning illusions and insidious charms. The lamia's animalistic nature and the effect of their cursed touch have led some scholars to theorize that the original lamias must have, millennia ago, turned away from their own reason and intellect and embraced the life of simple beasts. Whether this change was rewarded as a monstrous gift from 
3171|Sargassum Heap|A sargassum heap is a mass of semi-intelligent seaweed that floats through the ocean, luring in its victims with hallucinogenic spores. Those affected by the spores are drawn towards the heap, envisioning their heart's desire. This might be a lost loved one, a child in need of help, an enchanting mermaid, the promise of dry land, and so on. Once their prey is close enough, the sargassum heap lashes out with its seaweed tendrils and crushes it to death.
3184|Aapoph Granitescale|The mutated aapophs dubbed granitescales have bulky frames covered in hard gray plates. These scales offer protection but shed when struck with too much force. Granitescales like to carve their shed scales into small chips and attach them as rattles to their spears. Many an unsuspecting victim has heard the hiss of a granitescale's rattle too late.
3208|Giant Tarantula|Tarantulas are ambush predators but will attack prey in the open.
3240|Will-O'-Wisp|Malevolent balls of colored light, will-o'-wisps haunt lonely marshes and forests, where they lure unsuspecting travelers into danger. Will-o'-wisps can vary the color and illumination they shed, and delight in mimicking bobbing lanterns or distant fires to draw lost or disoriented travelers off of safe trails. They can extinguish their illumination entirely to become invisible, and they enjoy doing so once their victims are wholly lost and have realized that the bobbing light in the distance isn't, in fact, leading them to safety. Even invisible, however, a will-o'-wisp rarely ventures far from its target, as it feasts upon the panic and dread felt by its victims.
3252|Zombie Hulk|These towering horrors rise from monstrous, gigantic corpses.
3262|Majungasaurus|The majungasaurus prowls in a crouched posture, carrying its bulk so low to the ground it is eye-to-eye with its prey. Unlike most carnivorous dinosaurs, the majungasaurus is primarily an ambush predator, patiently lying in wait for quarry to come within reach before bursting from cover with a signature cry to attack.
3297|Magnegor|Magnegors roam the mountains of Golarion, grazing on wild berries, edible roots, and other plants that favor iron-rich soil and high elevations. These hulking, woolly bovines have four curved horns—two extending from behind their ears, and two from below their jaws—that frame their skulls in an X shape. Their bodies are covered in thick, stringy hair with a texture akin to copper wire, parted only by massive neural spines of dense, nearly indestructible keratin.
3322|Virtuosic Lyrebird|Virtuosic lyrebirds present an excellent case study in how specialty-bred animals can escape captivity and become pests. A small team of apprentice mages established the original virtuosic lyrebirds as part of their graduation thesis, in an attempt to create a familiar that could better aid in spellcasting. The vocal mimicry of these birds did indeed allow them to harmonize with their bonded spellcaster; however, initial progress was slow, and the impatient students chose to hastily elevate the birds' abilities before their thesis deadline using experimental magic. Unfortunately, the specimens' newfound vocal mimicry was so supreme that they could mimic spell incantations as easily as any other sound they heard. The virtuosic lyrebirds soon vaporized, teleported out of, or befuddled their keepers into opening their cages, escaping into the wild and flourishing.
3336|Minargul |Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3337|Ripnugget|Recall Knowledge - Undead
3340|Asmerelli|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3350|Arika Avertin|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
2286|Kundal|This creature did not include a description.
2380|Jaggedbriar Hag|This creature did not include a description.
2386|False Priestess|This creature did not include a description.
2415|Spellscar Fext|Spellscar fexts are spellcasters who were destroyed by wild magic or wellspring surges they tried—and failed—to control. The magical feedback that snuffed out their life warped and animated their flesh, twisting them into shambling undead. Spellscar fexts stand 6 feet tall with disproportionately long arms that end in clusters of waving magical tendrils.
2456|Capstan Swabbie|Capstan swabbies are constructs specially designed for seafaring. Sea captains looking for unwavering loyalty and competence can do far worse than a swabbie.
2491|Ofalth Zombie|This creature did not include a description.
2500|Dreamscraper|Dreamscrapers invade the dreams of sleeping mortals to scrape away at their minds and steal their dreams, leaving them raw and tired upon waking. Maggot-like, with many eyes surrounded by a circular, toothy mouth, dreamscrapers use sharp barbs attached to ethereal tendrils to trawl for dreams. After returning to the 
2507|The Guest|This creature did not include a description.
1854|Deathless Hierophant|Compared to deathless acolytes, deathless hierophants are often much more ambitious and far-reaching, with goals like seeking an entire nation's conversion to the worship of their deity.
1856|Excorion|These hideous undead creatures result from an exquisitely painful necromantic process where flayed humanoids are animated through their exposed blood vessels. Cults of undeath typically punish apostates and renegades with this cruel method of reanimation, though sacrificial victims or unfortunate prisoners might suffer a similar fate. Excorions have supernaturally strong, pulsing veins that extend outward from their bodies like thousands of tiny, bloody cilia.
1915|Hunter Wight|Dangers deep in the wilderness claim the life some lone scout or hunter. When they arise as wights, they renew their hunt with equal vigor, but all the living are now their prey. Hunter wights prefer to seek strategic ground, frequently taking residence atop hills or within abandoned watchtowers and keeps.
1969|I|This creature did not include a description.
2019|Xulgath Mage|This creature did not include a description.
2057|Virulak Necromancer|Virulak necromancers are often intrigued by the interplay between poison and undeath, testing toxins on their dead flesh or, more commonly, on hapless living victims. This virulak necromancer was once a sorcerer but now considers their bloodline irrelevant.
2058|Drusilla|This creature did not include a description.
2063|Zombie Chuul|This creature did not include a description.
2086|Hungering Growths|This creature did not include a description.
2105|Xulgath Bomber|This creature did not include a description.
2173|The Disciples|This creature did not include a description.
2273|Spirit Of Stisshak|This creature did not include a description.
2|Alghollthu Master (Aboleth)|Aboleths form the core of alghollthu society, and while they are the “common folk” of their own societies, they see themselves as masters of all others. Unlike their leaders, who mask their actions using magical disguises, aboleths revel in their monstrous forms, appearing as primeval fish with tentacles. Masters of psychic manipulation, they are a species so ancient that they were present in the world when it was young, before the gods had turned their attention to the planet. They see all other life as something they have the right to control, so the idea that potential slaves might have faith in a higher power other than themselves enrages aboleths.
43|Greater Barghest|Once a barghest has eaten enough to grow into a greater barghest, it typically seeks a method to leave the Material Plane and return to the Abyss, there joining other fiends as yet another of that plane’s horrors. As barghests have no innate ability to travel the planes, though, the time it takes for most greater barghests to engineer such a return can usually be measured in years, if not decades. During that time, greater barghests continue to play the roles of gluttons, hunters of humanity, and tyrants of goblinoid tribes. More than a few grow accustomed to such lives on the Material Plane and wholly abandon the end goal of returning to the Abyss, despite the fact that those who do make such a return home often grow even more powerful over time, gaining eerie new abilities and qualities absorbed from the raw chaos of the Abyss itself.
81|Chuul|Also known as chu'ulothis, these large, armor-plated, crustacean predators lurk beneath the surface of pools, mires, and ponds, waiting to snatch up prey with their massive claws before paralyzing them with their tentacles. At that point, they begin to feed, eating their quarry alive.
142|Young Brass Dragon|Brass dragons are whimsical tricksters who delight in humor and play. They particularly enjoy conversations with humans and other civilized humanoids, delighting in the naive customs of these diminutive races without showing them haughtiness or scorn. While they may seem merely curious, brass dragons engage in this sort of conversation with the goal of keeping up to date on regional politics so they can anticipate future conflicts. Along the way, they create extensive information networks that begin with their own allies but stretch across all levels of humanoid society—networks which the brass dragon then uses to subtly assist settlements near their lair. Unlike the schemes and manipulations of blue dragons, brass dragons use their informant networks to establish justice and equality.
184|Xorn|These squat, rotund elementals have three legs, three arms, three eyes, and one massive maw, which they fill with the gems and metals they find so delicious.
189|Salamander|Salamanders have serpentine lower torsos, but humanoid upper bodies with toothy reptilian snouts. Their affinity for cruelty and violence puts them in close alliance with the demons of the Abyss.
220|Hill Giant|Selfish and crude, these rough-skinned raiders are bullies and ultimately cowards. Quick-tempered and fond of violence, a hill giant gladly raids and pillages the defenseless but is quick to flee from those who are bigger, stronger, or better organized than they are. A hill giant is never above shoving or tricking one of their own kind to slow down their opponent or get the best loot.
306|Dark Naga|Dark nagas are wicked, jealous creatures that crave power and wealth. Indeed, the dark naga sees such ideals as spiritual expressions of an essential truth: if one can take something, that something is theirs to have. The dark naga sees other creatures as lessers worthy only of subjugation or as rivals who must be eliminated.
323|Black Pudding|Most often found below ground, these oozes scour caves for objects to dissolve with their corrosive secretions. This caustic acid is particularly dangerous to creatures that attack a pudding, as it can quickly damage and destroy gear.
519|Cu Sith|Cu siths are hound-like doorkeepers of remote portals to other planes, particularly portals to the untamed realm of the fey, the First World. They are highly territorial and roam the highland moors they call home, constantly on the hunt for any creatures that might intrude on their territory. Those that bargain for safe passage to or from a portal find cu siths to be vigilant escorts that keep travelers safe from extraplanar threats but also ensure their charges don’t veer from the most direct path to their destination. Cu siths are highly proficient hunters, and to mortals they offer a single warning in the form of their terrifying bark. Creatures that refuse to flee upon hearing a cu sith’s warning bark risk a quick and brutal death.
527|Gahlepod (Juvenile Brughadatch)|The youngest brughadatches resemble overlarge tadpoles about 2 feet long.
536|Theletos|Theletoses maintain the balance between fate and free will. A theletos is a roughly spherical mass of crystals from which emerge four limbs, each split at the elbow and ending in three-fingered hands. A pair of crystalline tentacles also emerges from its body. Those who have been damaged by a theletos's tentacles describe a disorienting dilemma as they simultaneously feel forced to make a single choice while also being overwhelmed by the endless options available to choose from. Theletoses are more likely than most aeons to interfere in non-aeon societies, particularly in regions with draconian laws. Their involvement is twofold; a theletos concerns itself with both the freedom of individuals and the laws that restrict these individuals, even (or especially) when the two are in opposition.
591|Culdewen|Perpetually cursed to hunger and failure, a culdewen plies waterways in search of appealing fish to catch—the bigger the better. Of course, this diminutive, emaciated fey calls every living creature a “fish.” Only other fey are exempt, and they tend to consider culdewens lost causes. A culdewen can never find satisfaction. Each time they catch a fish, a magical curse forces them to hunt for an appealing spot to dine—an island, cove, or abandoned dock or shack where they can eat in peace. By the time they arrive, their catch will be gone. Every time. Forever.
643|Dweomercat|Dweomercats are magically gifted felines from the First World, where they prey upon other creatures and feed upon their primal energy. They are sometimes encountered in areas of the Material Plane where the veil to the First World is thin, or in regions where magic has been irreparably warped. Dweomercats are famous for their ability to twist the metaphorical strings of spells cast on or near them, which they can transform into their own defensive magic or tap into to instantly teleport across the battlefield.
645|Elasmosaurus|Elasmosauruses are long-necked, primeval reptiles that dwell in deep oceans and seas. Although not truly a dinosaur, elasmosauruses are often found in similar locations and are similarly titanic creatures. Keeping their massive bodies underwater, elasmosauruses use their long necks to catch prey and snorkel air to their massive lungs while remaining mostly hidden from the surface above. An elasmosaurus is 30 feet long and weighs 6,000 pounds.
707|Giant Jellyfish|Unlike its smaller cousins, the giant jellyfish is an active predator that chases down its prey through reefs or open water. It can even squeeze its enormous bell-shaped body into the tight confines of shipwrecks to drape its mane of tentacles across the exposed flesh of its prey.
725|Megalania|Megalanias, like their smaller cousins the giant monitor lizards, strike fast and use their powerful bite to grip their prey. They prefer to swallow their prey whole rather than risk others getting a bite of a hard-won meal.
773|Shoggti|Shoggti travel to other planes in roving bands to capture and charm victims, bringing them back to the 
794|Sceaduinar|Strange creatures born from jagged crystals in the heart of the 
812|Specter|When an evil mortal creature dies, it sometimes returns to haunt the area of its death as a specter, a hateful remnant, always seeking to slay others—particularly 
821|Stygira|Withered hermits wrapped in tattered rags, these scarred, eyeless creatures command strange secrets of the earth and interpret the fateful energies of the subterranean depths. In some regions, stygiras are worshipped as seers or even gods, although they lack the ability to grant spells to clerics and are often not aware of their worshippers at all. In other areas, they have strange ties to the ancient empires of the 
823|Tendriculos|These strange amalgams of plant and fungus with animal tendencies form where the natural world is corrupted by foul magic or frayed planar boundaries. Tendriculoses are instinctive ambush predators who seek out lightly traveled forest paths and lie in wait in the undergrowth. A tendriculos swallows its prey as quickly as possible and lets its paralytic digestive juices finish the meal, while swiftly restoring itself with the nourishment provided by the trapped creature. When collected, neutralized, and refined, the digestive fluids of a tendriculos form a lacquer that retains some of the tendriculos's acid resistance.
983|Ahvothian|Ahvothians are feral and cunning fiends from an 
990|Giant Bone Skipper|While less common than the smaller variety, giant bone skippers are the stuff of nightmares for morticians and graveyard keepers.
1084|Empress Bore Worm|When an area lacks sufficient food, the bore worms in a swarm become increasingly agitated and desperate. Eventually, at some chemical signal, the worms begin to cannibalize each other, devouring one other in a frenzy too gruesome to behold. A single worm emerges from this melee victorious; it rapidly grows larger and more voracious until it reaches an absolutely elephantine size.
1119|Pairaka|Often charming, sometimes even seductive, pairakas worm their way into mortal relationships, subtly destroying the ties of friendship and love through emotional and physical corruption and plague. Pairakas appear as beautiful, blue-skinned humanoids spotted with large rashes and boils, but they rarely take on their true forms. Instead, they adopt shapes that attract just enough attention for them to worm their way into the confidences of those they wish to torment and corrupt.
1148|Caulborn|Telepathic prophets and historians, caulborn gather in small cabals for protection and camaraderie, using their collective brainpower to unravel cosmic conundrums. Once they've exhausted an area's secrets, they depart, seeking new homes hidden within cities, sequestering themselves within caves, or lurking in forgotten corners of the planes. From the moment an 
1187|Winter Hag|On long, dark winter nights, folk at the edges of civilization have learned to be wary of old women who come knocking at their door. They look for her tracks in the snow and other telltale signs to make sure she isn't a winter hag who plans to drag them off and feast on their bones.
1207|Kirin|The rare and majestic antlered beast known as a kirin supposedly appear only in times of peace and prosperity or during the birth or death of a great sage. Thus, encountering a kirin is a sign of great fortune, success, and prosperity to come. Conversely, finding a kirin's corpse or witnessing their death is a portent of tragedy and misfortune. A kirin's song always precedes the sighting of one of these graceful creatures, a sound often mistaken for wind chimes gently dancing in the breeze.
1240|Mothman|Little is known of the strange creatures known as mothmen, save that when they make themselves known, calamity is sure to follow. The mothman sees themself as an agent of fate—provided such fate is devastating and destructive. Often, those who encounter a mothman never recall the meeting, yet live on to unknowingly pursue and enable the creature's obscure plans.
1259|Manticore Paaridar|Monks dissatisfied with the limits of their humanoid forms and yearning for a shortcut can steal the might from other creatures. These monks become paaridars, amalgamations that blend the features of their former ancestry with the form of another creature. The transformation challenges the limits of the paaridar's body and soul, demanding continual discipline to maintain control.
1312|Slithering Pit|A slithering pit is a strange, nearly invisible ooze with an extradimensional space for its digestive system, which mimics the appearance of an acid-filled stone pit. It slowly dissolves its captives in stomach acid until they can be digested. A slithering pit can go weeks without feeding, affording it patience.
1352|Tupilaq|A tupilaq is an artistically crafted construct carved from animal bones (typically whale or walrus) and imbued with the express purpose of eviscerating its creator's enemies. A tupilaq manifests from hateful magic—a thing that can be created only by someone who believes they were grievously wronged. When a terrible, unforgivable crime is committed against someone with great skill at carving and who has knowledge of the proper ritual, the aggrieved can channel their grief and hate through whispered incantations to bring a tupilaq to life.
1375|Zetogeki|Basalt comprises the earthen bodies of zetogekis, giant lizards with an innate ability to absorb and redirect kinetic energy. They dwell near active volcanos, particularly at hot springs and geysers, from which they drink copious quantities of steaming, mineral-rich water. Since they have no need for any other sustenance (and in fact can't digest anything else), zetogekis guard these watering holes. The worst fate that can befall the proprietor of a mountain hot spring is the arrival of a zetogeki, which can transform a lucrative business into a public hazard overnight. Mountain dwellers who make use of such hot springs pay monster hunters handsomely to eradicate or chase off zetogekis, but dealing with the stubborn beasts is no mean feat.
1421|Tanglebones|Sometimes, when murderer buries a large number of victims in a mass grave, the vengeful spirits of the slain can become similarly tangled together. When these spirits can't untangle, they instead return to their physical remains, fusing into one horrific mass of bones and black, tar-like sludge—a tanglebones.
1429|Eloko|If a biloko is lucky enough to consume several spellcasters or other creatures with innate magical abilities, they undergo a subtle transformation over the course of 1 week. Such a fey is known as an eloko, and in addition to their incredible appetite (even by biloko standards), they have the supernatural ability to grow to immense size.
1628|Venom Caller|Venom callers are 
1685|Boggard Hunter|This creature did not include a description.
1743|Ulgrem-Axaan|Whatever Ulgrem-Axaan looked like in life, undeath has revealed a rotting, crocodilian skeleton encased in a jagged hide of ice crystals. Steam rises from the creature's mouth and back as its icy skin melts in the sun or from the heat of the electricity it cycles through its body.
1818|Tar Zombie Predator|A big predator, like a smilodon or dire wolf, might lurk near a tar pit to pick off helpless creatures. When consumed and returned to unlife by a tar ooze, these tar zombie predators are just as canny and vicious.
2583|Suvarden|While the 
2601|Pagulin|Pagulins are massive, multi-legged lizards that stalk the mountain passes of the Five Kings Mountains. These reptiles hunt 
2650|Skymetal Striker|A skymetal striker resembles a serpent—or, more precisely, the two-headed serpent known as an 
2667|Tantriog|Wherever exquisite cuisine is consumed, amazing songs are performed, or epic waves crest, there wait tantriogs. With a crab's foreclaws, turtle's shell, and back flippers, tantriogs are among the more unique water elementals. They ply the Boundless Sea constantly seeking new experiences, whether the next big wave to ride, a tasty delicacy to sample, or a piece of art to collect. They crave new sensations and often seek them out at the expense of others.
2676|Pine Pangolin|These creatures sleep while hanging upside down by their partially curled tails and rely on their thick wooden scales to protect them from danger. One such danger the scales negate is the falling damage from deliberately rolling up and dropping onto the head of an unsuspecting opponent, which is one of their favorite combat strategies. Beneath their scales, pine pangolin bodies secrete a thick, sticky tar that serves as a secondary line of defense.
2707|Hryngar Assassin|In secret conclaves around Nar-Voth, hidden in plain sight within hryngar settlements, are the workshops and training grounds for the Darklands' most technologically sophisticated group of killers. Most hryngar assassins train from childhood, having been recruited from orphanages, and are under a life-debt obligation to their guild leader.
2713|Four-Tooth|This creature did not include a description.
2752|Yuni|This creature did not include a description.
2785|Yeongno|Neither human nor beast yet resembling both, yeongno (yeong-no) are creatures that once were denizens of heaven but were cast out, down to the mortal Universe, due to their own greed. Yeongno claim to have once been celestial dragons and wear elongated dragon masks with full-body wraps decorated with scale patterns in honor of this claim—though no one has been able to confirm the veracity of this belief. As they wander, they hold a willow pipe in their mouths, producing a distinct “bibi” sound that often heralds their appearance.
2795|Shimmerthief|Shimmerthieves are blind, lizard-like cave dwellers with an insatiable yearning to consume the rare delicacy of light. This hunger compels them to travel beyond their subterranean lairs to the surface to feed, leaving pockets of darkness behind as they go.
2842|Kanya (Muse Azata)|Kanyas are bearers of blessings and fortune, as well as harbingers of wisdom and spiritual growth. They are generally peaceful but quick to act if a community they are residing in is threatened. They pride themselves on inspiring mortals to such joy that they express it through the arts, leading to their common moniker as “muses.” More than one bard looks to a kanya as their personal inspiration, yet much like inspiration, kanyas come and go as they please. They wander the world as they will, offering rain, generosity, wisdom, and support to whomever pleases them.
2897|Succubus (Lust Demon)|Succubi are manifestations of the sin of destructive lust, and they are the most attractive of all demons—as befits their role in seducing mortals to fall to sin. The concept of gender is fluid to a succubus, as they can adopt countless 
2907|Coarti (Messenger Devil)|The burning-winged coartis are marked by the onerous contracts they agreed to and bound to 
2953|Young Omen Dragon|Fate is a fickle matter on Golarion. Even with prophecy broken on the world, there are ways to look to the immediate future or acquire a vague sense of long-term events. Omen dragons are bound to see the future—nebulous though it might be—at all times. Visions of the future hound them like a quiet song that never stops playing in their minds. While an omen dragon can focus on or ignore the music of fate at any time, the song plays all the same. At a glance, omen dragons resemble other occult dragons in appearance, save for the mirror-like interior membrane of their wings. An omen dragon's wings offer glimpses into the future. These glimpses are cloudy and vague, but generally correct, if only technically. Omen dragons have a natural compulsion to share the futures they see. These dragons have no compunctions about what the visions show and share their knowledge equally with innocent villagers as they do with wicked tyrants.
2964|Dullahan|Riding on a horse as black as night, the headless hunter known as the dullahan tracks down and takes the heads of those they deem unfit to continue living. When closing in for the kill, the dullahan first whispers their victim's name, then swiftly collects their prize, casting a pall of dread upon all who witness the grim execution.
2991|Quatoid|Quatoids are peculiar elementals native to the 
3096|Medusa|Monstrous humanoids that resemble humans with snakes instead of hair, medusas are best known for their petrifying gazes that—if lingered upon— can permanently transform mortals to stone. Medusas are shrewd and manipulative adversaries who collect and covet secrets, and who use threats and guile to exploit the fears of weaker creatures. A medusa may seek out powerful magic items, use divining magic to discover secret knowledge and unlock forbidden power, or infiltrate a society to beguile influential politicians. Their ability to worm their way into powerful organizations makes them natural leaders of criminal outfits and thieves' guilds, and their interest in magical phenomena leads some to pursue careers as oracles who offer to help adventurers find what they seek—for a price. Of course, if wit and deception prove insufficient, a medusa can always simply turn rivals into ornate stone decorations with little more than a glare. Many medusas build elaborate lairs to call home, often decorated with the statues of their foes turned into macabre trophies on prominent display.
3148|Vanth|Protectors of the 
3254|Apothecary Bee|These giant bees feed on the nectar of medicinal herbs and magical flowers, naturally processing the liquid into syrupy-sweet potions. Depending on the precise diet of the apothecary bees, they can produce a wide variety of potions, storing any excess in the waxy cells lining their nest. Apothecary bee workers are about a foot long, with yellow and black stripes. While carrying a potion, the bee's abdomen visibly swells and often changes color to match the potion within.
3283|Giant Coppermouth|Coppermouths are fierce and aggressive, even when alone, relying on their venom and ability to manipulate bioelectric impulses.
3312|Swift Guide|Swift guides are often among the first spirit guides to respond to threats, and they're said to move with such incredible speed that it's impossible to tell whether they're one or many until the battle is resolved.
3318|Karkadann|Karkadanns are a distant relation to unicorns, favoring more open terrain than their woodland kin. With the build of a buffalo, karkadanns have gray, scaly bodies, thicker hooves, and no mane. Despite their territoriality and harsh temperament, many karkadanns can be befriended by those who truly hold respect for nature in their hearts.
3339|Gorlak|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3344|Aliver "Pillbug" Podiker|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3351|Chertus Jheed|Recall Knowledge - Fungus
3356|Ghast Cultists|Recall Knowledge - Undead
3361|Fiendish Flock|Recall Knowledge - Animal
2295|Virthad|This creature did not include a description.
2299|Horagnamon|This creature did not include a description.
2320|Skeletal Tiger Lord|This creature did not include a description.
2406|Fleshforged Conformer|Shapeshifting fleshforged conformers have adapted to survive Ecanus's high-magic, population-dense sprawl. Resembling blocky humanoid skeletons splotched in uneven layers with cartilage and muscle, conformers are capable of attaching and detaching flesh from their bodies, often sending autonomous gobbets of fat and ligament to observe living creatures and harvest biological material.
2462|Skin Beetle Swarm|When a massive creature such a 
2499|Crownbound Constellation|Crownbound constellations are the essence of stars granted sentience by the goddess 
2504|Yaiafineti|Yaiafinetis grow only during periods of extended twilight, thriving across the cold tundra of the Crown of the World exclusively in the winter months. To survive in such harsh conditions, the yaiafineti, or dusk poppy, sprouts independent polyps that detach and then creep across the tundra in search of food for their matriarch.
1864|Ghost Pirate|Undead prowling the ocean on derelict ships have long been threats sailors keep an eye out for. Other than corporeal undead, some undead pirates take on an incorporeal form, especially if their bodies have been lost to the fishes. Captains of crews in particular are likely to return from the dead, perhaps on account of their strong personalities.
1871|Fallen Champion|While most herexens were clerics or clergy in life, fallen champions were holy crusaders that upheld the ideals of their deity while fighting enemies of the church and defending its congregants. Fallen champions are direct in their actions and wage their divine war on a grand scale. This fallen champion once worshiped the Arcadian goddess 
1885|Ice Mummy|The cold of high places coupled with strong winds and less oxygen creates an effect that can preserve bodies, mummifying them through natural processes. Many are created deliberately by cults, and a rare few voluntarily transform.
1891|Polong|Polongs exist to serve their creators as loyal familiars, spies, and assassins. Their convenience makes them popular among the wicked, as each resides within a glass bottle which normally seems to contain only a small amount of red liquid. When addressed by their owner, a polong appears within their bottle as a tiny, beautiful humanoid drenched in blood. Forcing one to manifest outside the bottle reveals their true shape: a blood-soaked spirit with a hateful visage and sickle-shaped claws.
1903|Drake Skeleton|Moving with sinuous grace, these flying 
1948|Clockwork Sphinx|This imposing construct resembles a bronze lion with the wings of a great bird and the head of a humanoid.
1976|Clockwork Gunner|This creature did not include a description.
2054|Rust Hag|Rust hags have a knack for technology. They make their homes in hollowedout factories, abandoned tenements, and other sites of urban decay.
2085|Yshula|This creature did not include a description.
2094|Animated Tea Cart|This creature did not include a description.
2096|Skeletal Knight|This creature did not include a description.
2176|Kieragan Skross|This creature did not include a description.
2179|King Merlokrep|This creature did not include a description.
2234|Enormous Flame Drake|This creature did not include a description.
2275|The Dancing Lady|This creature did not include a description.
133|Young Green Dragon|Green dragons are the most contemplative of the chromatic dragons as well as the most approachable. The key to understanding green dragons is to understand their obsession with knowledge and self-discipline. Any careful approach that takes advantage of a green dragon’s fixations may end in a diplomatic outcome, but any misstep or slight can provoke a savage attack. Like most chromatic dragons, green dragons do not suffer fools—and the threshold for what they consider foolish is very low.
148|Young Copper Dragon|Capricious and always eager to share a good laugh, copper dragons are among the wiliest of the metallic dragons, but this by no means interferes with their mission to spread freedom in oppressive lands. Copper dragons are hedonists who are quick to indulge in simple pleasures, but they’re also sympathetic to other creatures, slow to pass judgment, and careful to always examine a situation from as many perspectives as possible. This philosophy has its drawbacks, however, as copper dragons are susceptible to negative influences and prone to forgiving the less serious evil acts performed by their chromatic cousins and other cruel creatures. Copper dragons also have a difficult time keeping their temper in check once they are roused to anger.
440|Bida|Bidas are black-scaled dragons with long, serpentine bodies and bat-like wings. Their legs and claws are smaller than those of most dragons, but their powerful undulating coils, like those of a boa constrictor, are potent weapons capable of squeezing the life from several unfortunate victims at a time.
524|Xulgath Stoneliege|Stonelieges are xulgaths magically infused with living earth—the very bones of the world. They are created through a process xulgaths call stone-binding, which can be performed with complex alchemy, powerful psychic magic, or Abyssal rituals. Their scales are like stone slabs, and their bones are as dense as bedrock, so they are among the hardiest and longest-lived xulgaths. To stonelieges, earth is as mutable as water, and their innate power to shape the soil and stone beneath their feet makes them integral members of xulgath society (as well as formidable combatants).
569|Behir|The behir is a massive, serpentine beast with never fewer than a dozen short legs, each ending in three hooked talons. A behir can live to 80 years, but most perish far younger to violence. Fully grown, a behir is 40 feet long and weighs 4,000 pounds.
605|Destrachan|This underground reptilian horror walks on two powerful hind legs. Its forelimbs are armed with sharp curving claws, and its toothy, eyeless, tubular head has three hypersensitive frilled ears that turn toward any sound made in its vicinity. This cruel monster's true weapon, however, is an amplified version of the sonic cry that it uses to navigate, communicate, and hunt. It communicates with others of its kind through a complex series of clicks, shrieks, and whistles, but it is intelligent enough to understand other languages. Most destrachans understand at least one other language—usually Undercommon—and can often be reasoned with.
621|Young Brine Dragon|Brine dragons are usually blue-green in color, with shiny scales, crests that help them glide through the water, and sweeping neck frills. They care little for either good or evil. As they are both opinionated and willing to impose their sense of order on others, many brine dragons eventually seek to rule over a meticulously crafted community. These communities are orderly and well-planned, with rigid standards of courtesy and unchanging laws set down by the dragon themself. A settlement seeded by a brine dragon can be made of members of almost any ancestry, but the most common inhabitants are humans, merfolk, tengus, or sahuagin.
658|Magma Scorpion|Whether skittering through Abyssal wastelands or basking in the searing sand of the deepest deserts, magma scorpions have charred carapaces constantly emitting vision-warping waves of heat.
685|Glass Golem|Crafted of hardened glass and held together by magically treated lead, glass golems are both deadly guardians and works of exquisite art. Glass golems most often protect grand cathedrals or opulent palaces—testaments to the wealth and power of those they serve, or once served. Once spurred into action by the commands of their creators, glass golems are quicker and more agile than most other golems. Their sharp, blade-like limbs can easily sever veins and arteries, creating wounds that bleed profusely.
703|Intellect Devourer|Intellect devourers serve as advance scouts and infiltrators for the powerful force of alien beings called the Dominion of the Black. These monsters roam the Darklands, from which they mount secret invasions of the world above. When an intellect devourer infiltrates a society, its first priority is to acquire a body. It might first seek out a graveyard for a fresh corpse, as this is easier than fighting and killing someone. When the aberration compresses itself into the host's brain cavity, its real body goes dull to sensation as it connects to the nervous system of its host. If found out, an intellect devourer might quickly inhabit a new body to make its escape, preferably something inconspicuous such as a domestic animal.
729|Mohrg|The weight of murder wears heavy on the soul. With souls marked by a lifetime of dealing death, these killers, whether mass murderers, bloodthirsty soldiers, or sadistic executioners, sometimes do not let judgment and lawful execution stanch their slaying sprees. When such individuals are brought to justice, they may rise after death as mohrgs to continue their ruinous work.
791|Sandpoint Devil|While some creatures have been fused to create a new entity that's graceful and beautiful, the Sandpoint Devil is the opposite. It has the hooves and body of a powerful horse, but it walks on its hind legs in a perverse parody of a humanoid gait. Its equine face has been distorted and elongated with skeletal, yellowed fangs and milky eyes. The pox-spotted hide along the creature's back bears a draconic tail with dark, spiny plates and two torn, bat-like wings.
833|Two-Headed Troll|Two-headed trolls are savage, dual-minded monsters with an unquenchable thirst for bloodshed, and dread tales of their ravenous appetites are whispered of in homesteads throughout the lands of the Inner Sea. Indeed, it is a custom for parents to invoke the two-headed troll as a warning to misbehaving children. “Finish your chores,” a parent might say to a stubborn child, “or a two-headed troll will snatch you away at night and swallow you whole!” It's unclear why such a morbid tradition gained traction with parents, but it's an undeniable fact that two-headed trolls have an appetite for “nibbles”—creatures small enough to devour with one bite.
991|Dreadsong Dancer|Dreadsong dancers are shaped from the souls of bards, dancers, and musicians who pledged themselves to 
1003|Svartalfar|Long ago in the mists of history, the fey ancestors of the svartalfars were banished from the 
1047|Gibtanius|When a gibtas feeds regularly but never receives sufficient food to procreate, it grows into a mighty gibtanius. They become surly, uncontrolled predators, forsaking their bonded masters to satiate their unending hunger.
1057|Procyal (Raccoon Agathion)|As the most whimsical and playful of the agathions, procyals are the most likely to be encountered on the 
1091|Cavalry Brigade|A cavalry brigade consists of several Hellknights and a single field-maralictor, in the distinctive armor of their order and bearing lances; the maralictor speaks for the brigade, questioning travelers the brigade encounters and barking orders. A Hellknight brigade is typically based at a keep or other fortification controlling an area measured by a day's ride in every direction—about 25 miles. Farther-ranging missions are possible but require substantial logistical support.
1170|Girtablilu Sentry|Sentries patrol the outskirts of a girtablilu communities, watching for external threats like 
1208|Kishi|Kishis are duplicitous and murderous fey who dwell on the edges of Golarion's densest jungles. At first glance, kishis appear to be attractive 
1236|Lifeleecher|Lifeleechers are mortic 
1239|Tylosaurus|Though large in size—sometimes exceeding 40 feet—tylosauruses have sleek bodies and long, narrow snouts. Few creatures compete with them in their environment, as most other aquatic giants reside in deeper water.
1293|Shantak|The imposing shantaks are far more intelligent than their bestial appearance would suggest. They can speak, though their voices sound like glass grinding on stone, and they can't converse in any language besides 
1303|Palace Skelm|Skelms crave power, and the palace skelms who stalk the halls where such power concentrates are among the most dangerous of their kind. They assume titles that allow them maximum freedom to punish or hurt others with minimal oversight: any vindictive guard captain, tyrannical viceroy, or needlessly cruel magistrate could be or become a palace skelm. They delight in the wealth and status of their positions, garbing themselves in ornate finery that reflects their station.
1356|Nosferatu Thrall|Nosferatu thralls are mortals bound to a nosferatu's will. While thralls aren't undead, they stay alive through unnatural means: feeding on the blood of their masters.
1380|Dragon's Blood Puffball|This bulbous, deep red fungus looks like an enormous, decaying rose.
1390|Urdefhan Blood Mage|Hardened masters of occult power, urdefhan blood mages trade their blood for magical might. A heavily scarred blood mage is held in esteem by their fellow urdefhans, as it shows they have survived many bargains with eerie occult patrons.
1425|Aigamuxa|Aigamuxas are towering humanoids that stalk arid deserts in search of prey. Carnivorous and voracious, they hunt anything that moves but especially relish eating sentient creatures. Many Mwangi people incorrectly refer to aigamuxas as demons, while others more accurately describe them as having descended from giants. Aigamuxas resemble large humans with smooth hollows where their eyes should be, but their eyes are actually embedded in the soles of their feet. They sport long, sharp claws and teeth that they use to tear their prey apart once they catch them. A moving aigamuxa's odd gait resembles dancing more than a typical walk or run, but its speed is alarming, if difficult to correctly estimate at a distance.
1434|K'nonna|K'nonna are half human—and only half, in the most literal sense. They most often resemble the right half of a human, and less frequently the left half, split perfectly down the middle starting at the crown of their head. They accordingly have one eye, one ear, one arm, one leg, half of a nose, and half of a mouth full of razor-sharp teeth. A faint shimmer in the air, like the waves over a hot stone, hints at where their other half would be.
1658|Terwa Chosen|Birthmarks, in the exact shape of constellations or abstract representations of them, are thought to signify a mighty destiny. These “chosen” put a faith in astrology that even some iruxis might call superstitious.
1732|Krampus Celebrant|Fierce as he might be, 
1789|Zombie Mammoths|This creature did not include a description.
1823|Graylok Gatebreaker|This creature did not include a description.
1824|Graylok Ambusher|This creature did not include a description.
1829|Everburning Mammoths|This creature did not include a description.
1845|Child of Urgathoa|Only the most fanatic followers of 
2516|Bhanyada Scavenger|Not much larger than dogs, the typical bhanyada scavenger is a warty, misshapen tangle of flesh that walks on stumpy legs, sometimes on two and sometimes on four. Plainly amalgamations of meat and gristle, few of which appear in the same color or texture, bhanyada scavengers have a horrifying mottled appearance. Their bulbous heads split into a maw with blunt teeth that shift about within their mouths to grind food. Bhanyada scavengers prefer living prey and usually hunt in numbers, often following in the wake of bhanyada behemoths to snatch up any scraps left behind.
2541|Seddek|This creature did not include a description.
2542|Zridi|This creature did not include a description.
2618|Veiled Current|Often considered cousins of 
2710|Toilforged Sentinel|Toilforged sentinels are intelligent war machines painstakingly constructed from iron, steel, and other metals over the course of a full year. With twin treads, a central cage filled with eternal flames, and numerous weapons (including a hammer, cannon, and grasping claw capable of snatching up foes), a toilforged sentinel is an intimidating sight. Creatures consumed by a sentinel's flames become captives, their souls eternally bound to the flames, powering the device. Such souls are freed upon the sentinel's destruction.
2715|Bronwyl Holloward|This creature did not include a description.
2775|Manananggal|Manananggals are wicked monsters that live as humanoids during the day but feed upon people at night. To hide their depravities, these beings disguise themselves as everyday people—typically recluses or eccentrics—and use their proximity to a community to pick out their next targets before striking under cover of night. Manananggals use their long, hollow tongues to drain victims' blood from vital organs such as the liver, and the resulting odd drainage marks make it difficult to determine the exact nature of a victim's death. This mystery typically leads to confusion, terror, and mistrust among communities, which most manananggals savor. While they fly, manananggals make a distinctive ticking sound, leading some to refer to the creatures as “tik-tiks,” and badly affected communities descend into fearful chaos at the first reports of this telltale noise.
2787|Exorcist|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
2816|Balisse (Confessor Angel)|Balisses, or confessor angels, seek to assist mortals ensnared by moral dilemmas or crises of faith. They prefer to guide people to their own decisions rather than demand obedience to a higher cause, as intrinsic belief is even more powerful than unquestioning obedience. While most balisses are fundamentally honest, they use their guiding angel ability to seem less  intimidating and decrease the chance the mortal will simply acquiesce to the opinion of an obviously divine being.
2831|Arboreal Regent|Arboreal regents—also called treants—are lumbering, solitary creatures responsible for guarding an entire forest. They take an especially long view of affairs and never act brashly or without much deliberation. They occasionally come together in small groups called groves to share news and pass their wisdom down to the 
2921|Triceratops|Triceratopses are muscular quadrupeds with powerful short legs, thick necks, and heads crowned by a wide, bony frill. Though they bear three large horns, they use these bony protrusions only to defend themselves or fight for dominance. Short-tempered and obstinate, triceratopses are unlikely to back down from a fight unless they are hopelessly outmatched, and the creatures are known to fight to the death for no apparent reason beyond stubbornness. Triceratopses often serve as mounts for humanoids, particularly giants, who can comfortably ride behind the dinosaurs' protective bone frills. A triceratops is 30 feet long and weighs as much as 10 tons.
2930|Jah-Tohl (Mind Snatcher)|The grotesque jah-tohl arrive in living starships to harvest the brains of intelligent creatures. These aberrations draw no nutrition from brains, instead storing them for analysis and as vessels for occult energies. A mind snatcher's form evokes that of a tailless scorpion, but the pulsing brain-filled blisters that glisten along its back make them impossible to mistake for oversized arachnids. Baleful eyes glare from the joints on their legs, and the unsettling, intrusive whisper-thoughts they telepathically broadcast into the minds of those they seek to feed on can be interpreted as threats or promises alike.
3011|Marsh Giant|Dwellers of brackish coastal salt marshes and fetid bogs and swamps, marsh giants appear hideous to most airbreathers, with fishlike mouths, slimy gray-green skin, and dark, beady eyes. They prefer to eat the flesh of those they slay in battle, including other marsh giants, and guzzle stagnant water from cauldrons or directly from their swampy homes.
3078|Lamia Matriarch|The brilliant and powerful lamia matriarchs possess boundless ambition, always seeking to bring more people and territory into the clutches of their kind. Consequently, they become rulers of other lamia. For all their cruelty toward other creatures, they're fierce protectors of other lamia, and consequently, they quickly come to rule cults or warbands. Regardless of the lamia's gender, these ascended lamias are always known as matriarchs. A lamia matriarch is set apart from their kindred by the occult power they pursue, and some have even had grand designs to break the animalistic curse that transformed them. However, every attempt so far has led to the matriarch's fall.
3115|Octopus|Giant octopuses are found in the heart of deep, dark oceans. Clever and adaptable, they hunt and devour all manner of animals. Despite growing up to 16 feet long, a giant octopus can compress its body to squeeze through small gaps as long as there's room for its beak.
3136|Phantom Beast|The River of Souls, alongside the souls of dead sapient humanoids, also carries the spirits of monsters, animals, and other creatures. Likewise, it draws souls from across reality, and thus human and elf souls mingle with those of far stranger creatures from untold worlds. Like any others, these far-flung spirits of strange creatures sometimes wash up on the shores of the 
3185|Bone Prophet|The speakers for the dead known as bone prophets hold an esteemed place as voices for their decapitated god. Burial rites, necromantic rituals, and the delivery of cryptic utterances supposedly whispered to them by 
3203|Giant Anaconda|The monstrous giant anaconda is a constrictor snake capable of swallowing whole creatures as big as horses—to say nothing of their riders. Although novice bushwhackers watch out for snakes that might drop on them from the jungle canopy above, giant anacondas are most commonly encountered in ponds and rivers, where they feed on prey including manatees and capybaras. This hunting tactic allows anacondas to drown their prey while constricting it, reducing the chance of injuries while hunting. Despite lurid and sensational stories spread by adventurers, these snakes rarely attack humanoids.
3281|Concert Frog|These massive frogs store their eggs inside their stomach. When an egg hatches, the froglet crawls its way up into its parent's mouth to add its celebratory chirps and croaks to the family's song.
3290|Hexmoth|A hexworm, upon consuming a sufficient quantity of magic, will spin a cocoon of magically infused silk, metamorphosing into its imago form.
3298|Mammoth Land Star|Mammoth land stars are unrelenting predators that move silently towards their potential meals on hundreds of tubular feet. There are several variations, but the most common have a diameter ranging from 8 to 12 feet and five total limbs. These mindless creatures weather any and all challenges in their hunt to devour their prey, using their superior sense of smell and keen observation of nearby movement to stalk prey from afar. Their paralytic venom and rapid digestive process spell a quick end for unsuspecting creatures caught in their grasp.
3341|False Devil|Recall Knowledge - Beast
3342|Iazmilor|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3343|Ziradnini|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3346|Jordu Munt|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3353|Adimar Scarnetti|Recall Knowledge - Beast
3360|Narlo Nyrell|Recall Knowledge - Undead
3362|Clockwork Serpent|Clockwork serpents are often found serving as guardians in serpentfolk laboratories or temples.
2291|The Beast|This creature did not include a description.
2297|Jin Durwhimmer|This creature did not include a description.
2300|Murder Of Crows|This creature did not include a description.
2301|Agai|This creature did not include a description.
2306|Cephal Lorentus|This creature did not include a description.
2421|Shoki|Shokis are shepherds who lead wayward souls to the 
2457|Kithangian (Beast Demon)|The kithangian—a horrifying amalgam of 
1861|Geist|A geist is an ever-shifting mass of black sack cloth, teeth, and mouths, folding in and out of itself and cackling like a thousand frenzied and doomed souls. Created when a haunt kills an evil person, a geist rises from a soul trapped on the plane of their demise, now connected to the dark energy radiating from haunts everywhere. They wander the world, looking for solace and never finding it. In frustration, they turn their malice back onto the living, antagonizing any nearby creatures, hoping to fatally lure their victims into the clutches of a haunt to be turned into another geist and share the torment.
1868|Grappling Spirit|When a great gladiator or wrestler meets their demise, their soul can sometimes linger out of a love for combat and sport. Every grappling spirit manifests a mask that represents the legacy of the warrior they were during their life.
1916|Prowler Wight|Often found lurking in the dark, prowler wights wield subterfuge as their greatest weapon. They frequently feign death in old sewers, graveyards, and mausoleums, waiting for hapless victims to pass by before striking.
1980|Clockwork Buccaneer|Clockwork buccaneers are powerful constructs designed for naval combat. Whereas most clockwork creations sink to the ocean floor while at sea, clockwork buccaneers can use their water jets to easily propel themselves through the water or leap aboard enemy ships. In addition to an internal water tank and hydraulic pumps, most clockwork buccaneers are equipped with a cutlass and arm gun loaded with scatter shot.
1984|Wraith, Smog|Clouds of choking fumes and toxic smog continuously shroud these potent undead. They constantly belch forth noxious vapors and find great humor in the death of creatures too weak to resist their vile fumes. These fetid vapors are so dense the corpses of a smog wraith's victims can float among them.
1988|Viewslog|This creature did not include a description.
1990|Clockwork Shambler Horde|This creature did not include a description.
2055|Grave Hag|Rot-skinned grave hags usually lair in cemeteries, mausoleums, and other burial sites; unlike most hags, they can't alter their appearance into a comely shape, so they hide from most observers. Grave hags consider such a predatory life hiding out in graveyards to be pitiful and squalid—they prefer to dwell in lands where necromancy is common and undeath isn't unusual. These grave hags become adept at necromantic magic and love posing as scholars. Schemers and plotters, they surround themselves with minions whom they send on missions to collect corpses for ghastly rituals.
2067|Sulvik|This creature did not include a description.
2240|Enormous Dragonfly|This creature did not include a description.
2242|Bog Mummy Cultist|This creature did not include a description.
2276|Boggard Warden|This creature did not include a description.
100|Vrock (Wrath Demon)|When the gates to the Abyss swing wide, the first demons through are often vrocks, vulture-headed scions of rage who wheel through the air on black wings or dance with the exultation of their fiendish power. Their hatred for mortals is matched only by their desire to inflict suffering through their horrible screech or their devastating dance. Vrocks form from the souls of hateful mortals who are thus given another chance to inflict their rage on the world.
145|Young Bronze Dragon|Bronze dragons are among the most common of metallic dragons and the most likely to ally with mortals on worthy quests. However, they are naturally scholarly creatures who would rather remain in their lairs studying esoteric lore than go off on a wild adventure. These aloof and stoic dragons also act as preservationists, guarding storehouses of ancient lore from destruction or perversion. Bronze dragons are principled and protective, but while their silver cousins are quick to crusade for justice, bronze dragons prefer to find an important location worthy of their protection and guard it against any attack or unwelcome intrusion.
158|Drakauthix|The drakauthix is a massive fungus that floats through the heights of the largest Darklands caverns, propelled by bladders that spray air and spores. A voracious but slow-moving hunter, the drakauthix prefers to ambush meaty creatures from above, using its hooked appendages to pull its victims upward to feed. The drakauthix’s digestive process is entirely external—it clings to victims, and its spore-laden surface slowly feeds on and grows through the flesh before the spore-infested carcass is discarded. As the infested body strikes the ground below, it bursts and releases a cloud of spores, unleashing a host of young called sporelings that immediately scuttle up the cavern walls to cling to its ceiling and grow.
199|Tidal Master|Tidal masters use their power over waves and water to drown their enemies.
260|Nessian Warhound|Believed to be bred by the Prince of Darkness himself within vast kennels in the infernal realm of Nessus, Nessian warhounds are the favored guards and hunting hounds of powerful fiends and, rarely, those mortals who worship them and have earned their favor.
565|Dracolisk|Dracolisks are rare magical crossbreeds of chromatic dragons and 
582|Titan Centipede|These colossal, solitary centipedes claim vast hunting grounds.
608|Osyluth (Bone Devil)|An osyluth is an unparalleled inquisitor that revels in the sadism and torture for which 
631|Young Magma Dragon|Magma dragons have a reputation among other dragons for being unpredictable and brash. Their temperament and tendency for violent outbursts ensure that the typical magma dragon lives a solitary life, with hatchlings often bickering or fighting to establish dominance among themselves before they leave the nest. A magma dragon always has a reason for their outbursts and can always justify their sudden turns in mood, yet they rarely feel the need to do so.
668|Mastodon|Not to be confused with the larger mammoth, mastodons are primeval elephants who dwell predominantly in temperate forests. There, they travel in close-knit social groups and feed on the forest vegetation.
708|Jyoti|Jyotis are sometimes called “false phoenixes” (a term they find insulting) by the ignorant or willful. These avian humanoids are native to the 
737|Spirit Naga|In naga culture, the foul-tempered, unkempt spirit naga holds a contemptible place similar to that of hags in humanoid cultures. These decrepit creatures live out lives of solitude, sought out only by those who are foolish or brave enough to think they can benefit from the spirit naga's powers without paying a heavy price—for most who dare to show such hubris, the price is their own lives.
820|Giant Squid|Dwelling deep within the oceans, this huge cephalopod grows up to 45 feet in length and can weigh up to 600 pounds. Its arms and tentacles are lined with hundreds of hooks and suckers, allowing it to seize its prey with ease.
837|Giant Snapping Turtle|If the regular-sized snapping turtle is foul-tempered, then the giant snapping turtle seems to be willfully violent toward anything that dares intrude upon its domain. Measuring over 20 feet long and weighing thousands of pounds, this creature is capable of swallowing a humanoid whole. Swamp-dwelling societies, particularly 
860|Witchfire|Manifesting as a sinuous form wreathed in sickly green flames, this incorporeal undead forms when a powerful 
865|Dread Wraith|These menacing spiritual remnants of wicked warlords or bloodthirsty generals are towering specters of shadow and death. Like other wraiths, dread wraiths haunt the shadowy places of the world, but dread wraiths are more likely to travel greater distances to sow terror or amass influence, often sticking to dark glades or sinister ruins when journeying across sun-dappled lands. Dread wraiths tends to be arrogant and rarely form a pack with others of their kind, preferring instead to dominate groups of ordinary wraiths. A particularly powerful necromancer might compel packs of dread wraiths into service, however, while a particularly malevolent goal—such as to eradicate a bastion of light and life—might draw several dread wraiths together in a common purpose.
996|Teraphant|Though teraphants may resemble an elephant from afar, teraphants lack the long incisors that mark other pachyderms. Instead, tusk-like horns grow from their forehead. Native to Vudra, teraphants are occasionally found in Jalmeray and Nex, brought as rare gifts for nobles.
999|Bregdi|Bregdis hunt warm-blooded prey, lurking in the waters of most major port cities before using their ray-like bodies and hooked claws to hitch onto the underside of boats pulling into port. From beneath the docks and in the channels of settlements, bregdis wait for the careless or unlucky to fall into the water, where they make quick work of their hapless victims.
1001|Barnacle Ghoul|Far more powerful and dangerous than most ghouls, barnacle ghouls are the risen corpses of veteran sailors who fell overboard or of bloodthirsty pirates who died from keelhauling. Too rugged and hate-filled to stay dead, these seafarers return with bluish, water-bloated bodies.
1049|Seugathi Reality Warper|Seugathi reality warpers create and destroy inhospitable environments on a small scale by manipulating the forces of raw chaos. A 
1064|Animated Furnace|This huge forge or oven is animated to protect a workspace or kitchen, travel alongside its owner, or both.
1076|Baykok|A baykok is the restless remnant of a warrior or hunter, cast out for evil acts and cursed to forever soar through the sky far from its home, unable to ever set foot on the ground again. The creature's despairing, lonely cries at night are audible for miles across the wilderness it haunts. Jealous rage drives it to hunt isolated humanoids, especially warriors and hunters who remind it of the life it once had and squandered. A baykok's invisible arrows carry its soul-freezing loneliness, and its envious touch can steal a helpless victim's vitality.
1081|Blood Painter|Simultaneously enamored with the natural world yet too alien to survive in it, blood painters are eight-limbed artists who stalk, kill, and dismember in search of pigment and sustenance alike. Blood painter physiology can't digest typical food, so the creatures feed by harvesting blood and using it to paint and animate something edible.
1097|Clockwork Mage|A clockwork mage is a lethal blend of magic and machinery. Each of these clockworks is imbued with an arcane stone at its core that powers spells through the wand embedded in its chest.
1128|Young Sky Dragon|Sky dragons live above the clouds near the summits of mountains. They maintain a strong religious tradition, a unique practice among imperial dragons that sets them apart as much as their wings do. Desperate souls risk steep cliffs and loose snow to seek these dragons' counsel, and most sky dragons gladly help those who make the journey, but they expel any express hostilities or badger without hesitation.
1230|Mokele-Mbembe|Mokele-mbembes are large, reptilian predators found deep within Golarion's jungles. Mwangi view mokele-mbembes as embodiments of nature's strength and majesty, and they consider the sighting of this rare being a sign of favor from the gods and an omen of powerful natural forces. Mokele-mbembes are solitary and excel at going undetected. Most information about them—including the fact that they're voracious predators—comes from following the signs of their passage.
1250|Hesperid|Hesperides are nymphs of sunset, guardians of the colorful golden hues of the setting sun. They live on remote islands, isolated coastal cliffsides, and hidden valleys, all places where the sunset's golden glow can have the strongest effect. Hesperides manipulate sunlight with dancelike motions, allowing them to create graceful ribbons of light at close range and searing rays at a distance. Due to their connection to the beauty of the daily cycle of the setting sun, hesperides feel a satisfaction from methodical routine that can feel alien to wilder, more chaotic fey. 
1254|Khravgodon|Few creatures can shrug off an 
1338|Tikbalang|Tikbalangs are forest creatures that delight in leading travelers astray. They deceive and mislead with their formidable magic, leaping from tree to tree while laughing, or neighing, uncontrollably. While not malicious, neither are they empathetic to the plight of their victims. They would sooner forget about those whom they have played tricks on and leave them to die than lead them back to their intended path through guilty altruism.
1378|Zombie Dragon|The rotted husk of a once great dragon, this abomination has lost all its former splendor, but none of the ferocity. Its patchy, rotted wings don't generate enough lift to keep it aloft, but the foul necromantic energies animating it still allow it to fly, albeit slowly.
1379|Bright Walker|Those who encounter 
1381|Reaper Skull Puffball|When this fungus detects prey, its tendrils writhe and exude a paralytic toxin.
1382|Deepwater Dhuthorex|The typical dhuthorex is a dumb and hungry beast, chasing prey through the depths and venturing onto land only to pursue easy prey.
1546|Belmazog|Born with the power of dragons within her veins, Belmazog has heard the foul whispers of 
1622|Gbahali|Resembling an enormous, long-legged alligator, the gbahali is larger, stronger, faster, and more cunning than all but the largest of its crocodilian kin. Gbahalis will range far from the banks of the rivers they inhabit to seek prey. With a powerful, squat snout, a gbahali viciously bites their quarry, while their powerful hind legs allow them to leap upon fleeing creatures or stride away to safety when threatened.
1690|Cyclops Bully|This creature did not include a description.
1729|Kallas Devil|Bearing a resemblance to the flayed 
1793|Venexus|The white dragon Venexus hatched in Winterwall Glacier, north of the Realm of the Mammoth Lords and Irrisen, alongside her brother Fezerod. Upon reaching maturity, Venexus and Fezerod migrated south to the Realm of the Mammoth Lords in search of unclaimed territory. Although the pair remained together for centuries, shortly after they conquered Lost Mammoth Valley together Venexus drove him off. The valley was, at the time, a highly frequented migratory route rich in resources, wildlife, and humanoids to subjugate. Fezerod fled in heartbreak and shame. In the centuries since, Venexus has maintained control of Lost Mammoth Valley, considering the region and everything within her property.
1819|Tar Zombie Mammoth|Because their massive size makes them difficult for tar oozes to fully digest, tar zombie mammoths tend to resemble their living forms more closely than other tar zombies. However, this doesn't make them any less malignant than smaller tar zombies.
1841|Daqqanoenyent|A daqqanoenyent is a horrific monstrosity arising from a terrible crime against the dead, obsessed with exacting retribution. The creature manifests as an enormous, disembodied head, 10 feet in height and covered in coarse black hair, with bat-like wings and vicious fangs and talons. Daqqanoenyents are naturally conflicted creatures. As the product of the tortured wills of numerous victims, daqqanoenyents sometimes exhibit strange or contradictory behavior as various individual wills struggle for control. Their conflicting desires make daqqanoenyents relatively easy to trick or deceive, and the creatures are vulnerable to fire. One story of a daqqanoenyent encounter describes the creature attempting to eat an old woman, only to be tricked by the woman into devouring a live coal. Their mouth aflame, the daqqanoenyent fled into the wilderness, never to be seen again.
2651|Nanoshard Swarm|This bizarre entity is actually a massive collective consisting of tens of thousands of constituent parts, each a tiny metal sphere barely the size of a pebble. Controlled by a single elemental spirit, the swarm is capable of flowing like liquid through the smallest openings before shaping itself into a powerful combatant, a solid wall, or any other form circumstances might require.
2678|Painted Stag|At a distance, painted stags appear constructed in the general shape of male deer, their flanks and antlers decorated with unique, colorful patterns. But while they retain (and indeed, augment) the blueprints 
2685|Nightwood Guardian|The nightwoods are parts of the 
2688|Jann Shuyookh|Regarded as the progenitors of geniekind, janns hold a position of esteem above the genies tied to specific planes. They possess an inborn ability to grant wishes, which the other branches of geniekind lack and greatly envy. Nomadic jann shuyookhs rarely hold court, preferring to gather only when the need arises to perform great deeds. Lesser janns respect and venerate these leaders for their wisdom and total dedication to preserving the honor and reputation of their people. A jann shuyookh reads portents and omens when dealing with duplicitous mortals.
2708|Hryngar Breccia Squad|A hryngar breccia squad is a group of hryngar martial combatants armed with melee weapons and steel shields. Though more likely to be encountered near large hryngar settlements, these strike forces see wide use throughout the Darklands. Hryngar breccia squads often serve as military units, mercenary companies, city patrols, and caravan guards. Like all warriors, the favored combat methods of a hryngar breccia squad change by location, often due to surrounding environment and popular equipment.
2716|Ashrin|This creature did not include a description.
2888|Deinosuchus|The deinosuchus is a primeval relative of the crocodile, and is an enormous predator capable of catching and eating dinosaurs that wander too close to its domain! Much longer lived than other crocodiles, it can grow to around 30 feet long.
2932|Young Adamantine Dragon|The powerful adamantine dragons are one of several dragons known as skymetal dragons. The innate magic that flows through these dragons causes them to draw particular metals to their bodies like magnets or, in some cases, naturally grow these skymetals on their bodies. Adamantine dragons begin their lives with tough scales that are naturally replaced with thicker and even tougher adamantine plating as they grow older. Adamantine dragons are typically steadfast and loyal. Once they commit to a certain purpose, changing their minds is nigh impossible.
2950|Young Mirage Dragon|Mirage dragons are masters of illusion magic and use their powers to deceive others and further their own agendas. In addition to their magical prowess, mirage dragons possess a number of additional features to help them on hunts or mislead attackers, such as their camouflaging scales and a hallucinatory breath that can confound multiple foes at once. Mirage dragons are vain and egotistical figures. They ultimately care more about themselves than others.
2956|Dragon Turtle|These immense aquatic dragons have rocky shells similar to those of tortoises and flippers powerful enough to overturn hardy vessels. The fearsome creatures enjoy being considered as dangerous as storms or natural disasters by seafaring folk. Despite their reputation, many dragon turtles delight in secretly observing seafaring cities grow and evolve throughout the ages. They have even been known to protect such cities from pirates, invading armies, or even other dangerous sea creatures. According to rumor, these turtles have even hired adventurers to handle more inland threats. Such cities will often offer tribute to the great turtle if they discover its intervention. While a dragon turtle hoards the treasures of the ships it sinks, they consider the bounty freely offered from their protected city most precious.
3006|Ifrit|The fierce and unforgiving ifrits hail from the 
3013|Frost Giant|Frost giants are remorseless marauders who pillage and plunder from those who dare to live near them in desolate, frigid lands. Their clans range from extremely territorial hunters who ferociously defend their expanse of tundra to nomadic families that roam icy slopes in search of settlements to conquer. Frost giant clans are ruled by the family member who exhibits the greatest ferocity and prowess in battle—often a massive bully who demands absolute obedience from the rest.
3048|Greater Hell Hound|Believed to be bred by the Kings of Hell themselves within vast kennels, greater hell hounds are the favored guards and hunting hounds of powerful fiends and, rarely, mortals who worship them and have earned their favor.
3110|Nuckelavee|When pollution despoils a natural waterway, it draws the dreaded nuckelavee to it from the 
3189|Megalodon|Prehistoric sharks of incredible size, strength, and ferocity, megalodons scour waters deep and shallow to sate their considerable hunger. The presence of a megalodon undeniably affects the local aquatic ecosystem.
3269|Soniphak|Often mistaken for drakes, soniphaks glide above rocky or barren ground, picking out prey with their hearing. A hunting soniphak disables its targets with concentrated bursts of sound before snatching them up and feasting on the move. Despite being able to speak, soniphaks are no more social than other dischorans, generally responding to even the quietest attempts at communication with destructive shouting.
3293|Stargut Hydra|While naturally carnivorous, the adaptable nature of hydras has led to an interesting divergence in the species and its preferred diet. The hydra population of Numeria, where organic prey is scarce, has developed the ability to digest stones and metal alloys. Those that strike upon a vein of skymetal for a meal can be forever changed by its properties, leading to a wide range of potential variations. As skymetal is a cornerstone of Numerian society, stargut hydras are treated in much the same way farmers view a swarm of corn weevils. The Black Sovereign Kevoth Kul offers a substantial standing bounty for the deaths of these creatures, in addition to purchasing whatever ore can be retrieved from their stomachs before it is digested.
3316|Giant Tardigrade|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3348|Mnoghoth|Recall Knowledge - Aberration
3352|Vizmivool|Recall Knowledge - Humanoid
3364|Fungus Tyrant|Hundreds of years ago, a cadre of powerful succubus assassins invaded the Abyssal realm of the demon lord of disease and fungus, Cyth-V'sug. These succubi sought to slay a powerful witch who had befouled a profane temple the assassins served. The succubi failed at their mission, but from their corpses grew the first fungus tyrants. Pleased with this development, the witch then seeded numerous worlds on the Material Plane with fungus tyrant spores, who have since grown and thrived in their new environments as rot thrives in a corpse. Today, hundreds of fungus tyrants inhabit the fouler locales of the Material Plane. They're particularly fond of large cave systems and ruined cities, but also can be found in corrupted woodlands where blighted fey rule or in the sewers of active cities that spew vast amounts of magical waste.
2490|Tyrroicese|This creature did not include a description.
2502|Elder Thing Researcher|As one would expect from a species capable of living for thousands of years, many elder things grow more powerful than the standard specimen. Elder thing researchers are among the more frequently encountered of these incredibly rare beings, for their nature and interests often see them traveling to distant worlds to explore and lay the foundations for later conquest and colonization. Elder thing researchers often carry strange weapons or tools that merge technology with magic.
1886|Iroran Mummy|Some enlightened members of the 
1955|Strigoi Servant|This creature did not include a description.
1958|Profane Ghoul|This creature did not include a description.
1973|Claws Of Time|This creature did not include a description.
1983|Ooze, Pyronite|With the discovery of the incredible gelatinous explosive called pyronite, it was perhaps inevitable alchemical monstrosities made of the stuff would soon follow. So-called pyronite oozes sometimes spontaneously manifest from stockpiles of pyronite or other powerful explosives, typically amid mana storms or when affected by powerful magic.
2021|Adrivallo|This creature did not include a description.
2107|Resin-Seep Xulgath|This creature did not include a description.
2108|Hooklimb Xulgath|This creature did not include a description.
2122|Aukashungi Swarm|This creature did not include a description.
2149|Vampire Guardian|This creature did not include a description.
2156|Pyrogeist|Born from the deaths of arsonists who died in the fires they started, pyrogeists are roiling infernos whose spectral fire emits no actual heat and harms only living creatures. Obsessed with sharing their torment with the living, pyrogeists haunt the area of their demise until whatever wrong they refuse to forgive has been righted, and they are finally put to rest. While pyrogeists can't set their own fires, they often use their terrifying illusory capabilities and telekinetic powers to lure their victims into setting themselves ablaze.
2206|Bloom Of Lamashtu|A thick, green stalk with spiraling rows of thorns stands at the center of this enormous flowering plant. Each flower has a growing seed pod at its center, surrounded by vibrant petals in a wide variety of colors. Crafted after consecutive seasons of experimentation, prayer, and ritual, the bloom of 
140|Adult White Dragon|The most feral and least intelligent of all the chromatic dragons, white dragons are brutish, predatory, and chiefly motivated by self-preservation. Nearly all other dragons look down on white dragons as hopelessly hotheaded and dull, though this does not make them any less dangerous—in fact, it may mean the opposite. It’s nearly impossible to treat with white dragons, not because they lack the capacity to do so, but because they just don’t care to. They are as difficult to deal with as they are quick to anger, and they become incensed at almost anything. When a white dragon does speak, it spews threats, inane jokes, and incoherent babbling as a prelude to attacking—and when the attack comes, it’s bloody and relentless.
476|Aluum Enforcer|The most common aluum is powered by the bound soul of a loyal city servant, but its creation is among the Pactmasters’ most guarded secrets. There are dozens of dormant aluums spread throughout Katapesh, and only someone wearing an aluum charm can activate and command one of these 14-foot-tall soldiers. The Pactmasters entrust few beyond the Zephyr Guard to carry these charms, and stealing such a charm is one of the most severe crimes in the city.
525|Yaganty|Yaganties are lean, hairy humanoids with lanky torsos, horned heads, and bulbous black eyes. The elongated fingers of one their hands are made of candlestick wax, and their fingertips, which have wicks instead of nails, burn endlessly. In the dead of night, the flickering light of a yaganty’s fingertips casts dramatic shadows across their face and highlights their trollish visage.
528|Brughadatch (Midlife Brughadatch)|The biggest difference between a gahlepod and a grown brughadatch isn’t their humanoid appearance, but the powerful magic they gain as they mature.
542|Movanic Deva (Guardian Angel)|Movanic devas are stewards of the flow of good creatures' souls through the cycle of life and death, from the point a creature is born to the day it dies. These angels arise from the souls of stalwart nurturers and protectors, and share a specific connection with a creature's vital essence—its life force. Movanic devas are most concerned with guiding and protecting good creatures during their mortal lives, so once a soul has passed into the River of Souls, the movanic deva leaves its protection to the soul angels, or monadic devas. As part of their stewardship over good creatures, movanic devas can waken within animals a level of sapience to allow them to become kindly and benevolent as well, thus increasing the flow of goodness into the afterlife. They also spend time patrolling the 
624|Young Cloud Dragon|At heart, cloud dragons are wanderers, explorers, and travelers who enjoy nothing more than seeing new lands and meeting unusual creatures. Cloud dragons range in color from light blue to a pale, milky white and have thick, curling horns and rather short snouts. They keep lairs among the extreme altitudes of the highest mountain peaks but are away on their many journeys as often as they're at home. Cloud dragons spend long hours surveying the lands they fly over from great heights, but they are creatures of whim, making it hard to predict what will pique their curiosity and bring them winging down to converse or investigate something on the ground. Cloud dragons seldom perform acts of outright malice, but they are not often charitable either. A cloud dragon is as likely to simply pluck something they desire off the ground and fly away with it as they are to bargain fairly.
649|Melody On The Wind|This cloud of song and sound has been caught by the wind and carried across the air. While the melody on the wind (known by some as a song elemental, despite the fact that no such place as a plane of song exists in the known multiverse) might enjoy the beauty of music, it is by nature a destructive elemental force.
666|Icewyrm|Resembling wingless, serpentine dragons formed of jagged ice and shot through with veins of nearly frozen water, these elementals dwell within icebergs and enjoy striking out at passing ships or creatures. They're especially common in frigid stretches of ocean in the Plane of Water, where icebergs cluster together into enormous islands of ice.
700|Behemoth Hippopotamus|Behemoth hippopotamuses stand taller than elephants. They spend less time out of water than their smaller kin. Behemoth hippos are omnivorous, and many enjoy the taste of meat.
740|Nereid|Nereids are aquatic fey with deep ties to water. They share some similarities with naiads, but they are not guardians and do not bind themselves to a specific body of water. Although they are primarily aquatic creatures, their unique ability to imbue their vitality into a supernatural shawl allows them to travel on land as well. A nereid must be careful when manifesting a shawl, however, as their life essence is bound to it, so it can be stolen or destroyed to threaten the nereid.
756|Peluda|Peludas are wild and savage dragons that favor reedy marshlands, sparsely forested bogs, and river valleys for lairs. A single peluda typically claims a stretch of waterways a few miles in length, then systematically drives off any potential rivals so that the peluda can despoil the land as they please, leaving clawed footprints on muddy riverbanks, toppling trees, and impaling half-eaten corpses on their quills as trophies left to rot. They venture beyond their domains to hunt, roasting prey with their breath or pulverizing them with their tails, burning and killing for cruel sport before slithering, sated, back to their mucky lairs.
766|Imentesh|The loquacious proteans known as imenteshes serve as missionaries, spies, and heralds of chaos to further the protean goal of reality's dissolution. Imenteshes are cunning, curiously diplomatic, and profoundly whimsical. They travel beyond the 
774|Nyogoth|Little more than a coiled mass of intestines encircling a massive gaping maw, this qlippoth is an 
843|Vrykolakas Master|Vrykolakas masters are sinister shapechangers. They walk undetected among the living and prey upon them like a wolf among sheep, often leaving the corpses to rise as vrykolakas spawn.
856|Water Orm|Legendary creatures lurking in remote lakes, water orms always find their way into the tavern tales of lakeside communities. To some travelers, every lake of respectable size seems to be surrounded by towns full of fishers claiming to have spotted a water orm. These elusive creatures inhabit lakes mainly in cool and gloomy regions. Some claim that water orms are an offshoot of 
877|Urdefhan High Tormentor|An urdefhan cult's best tormentors can advance to become truly formidable daemon summoners.
1000|Eberark|The terrifying apex predators known as eberarks torment their prey, spewing oil from their mouths that they can then set alight. Commonly called flint beasts, eberarks drag their overlarge claws (four on each paw) along the ground as they move, creating showers of sparks with every grating step. Incredibly vain, eberarks relish displaying their dominance over other intelligent beings. Some eberarks conquer small settlements, demanding tribute from residents and travelers, or lead bands of violent brigands.
1203|Zuishin|Zuishin are kami warriors and archers who task themselves with watching over important shrines, ancient gates, or sacred doorways. Monasteries secreted away in snowy valleys, pagodas hidden in remote forests, and archways that mark the passage into sacred hidden cities all might host such kami. With sturdy armor and hallowed armaments, zuishin fight tirelessly to drive off any evil powers who wish to desecrate their wards. Of all kami, zuishin most frequently fight against 
1237|Etioling|When the primal spark of the 
1270|Quintessivore|Quintessivores are cunning creatures that wield arcane magic and scalpel-sharp spider limbs that can rend one's soul just as easily as flesh. A quintessivore doesn't immediately kill its prey—it drags the creature to its lair and separates the victim's soul from their body with its bladed limbs. The flicking blades then pull out the creature's individuality, reducing the soul down to pure soul-stuff called quintessence, which the quintessivore then consumes.
1304|Soul Skelm|Soul skelms arise not from mortal men but from other skelms, as their long-held wrath slowly twists them and replaces lingering fragments of their mortality with even more fiendish aspects. These skelms bully and exploit the souls of the dead, binding souls and undead to keep themselves indefinitely young. They bully living victims as well, stoking regret and shame even from inconsequential minutiae or outright fabrications until these feelings become unbreakable ties that the skelm can leverage from beyond the grave. A soul skelm's attentions can leave a victim isolated from friends and allies, making them all the more susceptible to the skelm's manipulations.
1307|Clacking Skull Swarm|Roiling about in seething waves of bleached death, clacking skull swarms arise from the remains of dozens of beheaded humanoids. The horrible clattering of the skulls' onslaught drives their prey to distraction even while they try to flee in terror.
1330|Swordkeeper|Collectors who want to guard their magical arsenals procure or build swordkeepers. These constructs are equal parts display case and security system, each holding a single weapon within its body and projecting copies of the weapon it stores to deter would-be thieves.
1357|Nosferatu Malefactor|Twisted by age and eternal hunger, nosferatu malefactors spread plague in their wake and yearn for mortal blood.
1395|Dromornis|Dromornises are large, flightless, carnivorous birds that travel in packs to ambush prey. Their short, stubby wings may give them a comical appearance, but anyone who's been on the receiving end of the beast's powerful beak finds the experience less than amusing. Dromornis use their beaks to easily tear flesh and sinew from prey's bones, quickly dispatching sizable mammals like deer, tapirs, and primates. Particularly hungry or aggressive dromornises have even been known to attack humanoids. The bird's strong legs sport sharp talons that, while secondary in combat to its beak, can nonetheless trample and shred smaller creatures like rodents and amphibians caught underfoot.
1443|Zinba|Commonly known as ghost serpents, zinbas are rare, amphibious snakes with healing abilities. They're of similar size to other large snakes, such as pythons, but have a distinct bright blue coloring with red-and-black patterned stripes along their backs. This distinct coloration is easy to spot, but zinbas can swim through the wet mud and soft earth of their homes to avoid being tracked by all but the most skilled pursuers. This elusiveness inspires their “ghost serpent” moniker.
1550|Rusty Mae|This creature did not include a description.
1682|Ixamè |This creature did not include a description.
1735|Mosquito Witch|With unclear origins and even more mysterious powers, the Mosquito Witch's exact statistics and abilities might change depending upon her true nature in a given campaign. What follows is a representative rendition of the Witch and her core abilities. In addition, this article includes three variations of the Mosquito Witch, each embodying one of her enduring mythologies by providing a handful of additional abilities. Add or remove these abilities to create the Shimmerford cryptid of your imagination, and remember that the spookiest legends are often the ones the PCs barely encounter directly.
1815|Tar Ooze|When creatures carrying magical items die in a tar pit, the magic mixes with the tar itself. Over centuries, this energy animates the tar into a relentless and horrifying ooze.
1816|Weykoward|Beneath the camps of Hillcross, Mammoth Lord followings store belongings both precious and mundane in unsecured vaults called weykos. As power changes hands among Mammoth Lords and followings go extinct or become forgotten, such weykos are often abandoned for so long that they become indistinguishable from trash heaps or middens. Furthermore, if the conditions are just so, such weykos can spring to life as a result of latent primal magic or ancestral memories locked within the forgotten weyko that refuse to be forgotten.
2522|Oppali|An oppali is a tenacious, twisting vine with white, trumpet-shaped flowers that grows in temperate and tropical regions. Stories passed down through generations refer to the oppali as a “bad luck vine” and warn against letting one take over a copse or garden, lest “your luck drain away like water down a hole.” This folklore contains more wisdom than most farmers or settlers realize.
2580|Storied Harrowkin|These harrowkin take on themes drawn from a specific harrow card.
2620|Jaathoom Shuyookh|Exalted jaathoom shuyookhs are ostentatious purveyors of dreams and nightmares. They can remain invisible like any jaathoom, but prefer to make themselves visible to better communicate and express their individuality through bright fabrics, expensive jewels, and flashy displays of excess.
2625|Crystal Strider|Each long, thin leg of a crystal strider is a single enormous crystal, typically quartz or selenite. The strider uses this panoply of legs and a fluctuating physical structure to rapidly move about crystalline caverns, unimpeded by terrain.
2639|Sootsoldiers|Powerful deities and warlords strive for dominance over the 
2640|Asp Of Grief|On the 
2706|Larval Cave Worm Brood|While gestating, cave worms adapt to their surrounding environments, becoming accustomed to extreme temperatures and hazards nearby. For example, cave worms hatched in volcanic environments mature into crimson worms, while those raised near water sources mature into azure worms. Regardless of their environment, larval cave worms all have translucent bodies and pallid carapaces that harden and change color as they mature.
2765|Aoyin|n aoyin resembles an ox with a pale body, four horns, and hair as coarse as straw. Although this large, solitary beast bears a slight resemblance to the common draft ox, it's a highly aggressive and territorial carnivore who stalks and devours its prey. An aoyin dwells high in the mountains, rarely being seen by common folk. However, during lean winters, an aoyin might descend from its mountain home in search of food, resulting in gruesome encounters with nearby settlements. It's believed that a single aoyin can decimate the population of an entire village, only to retreat into the nearby mountains once it has satiated its hunger.
2881|Clay Effigy|Traditionally, clay effigies are crafted in the image of a deity and used as guardians of tombs or sacred crypts. Clay effigies have the power to lay curses upon their victims as punishment for intrusion, leading many to believe that these oft-ancient constructs have a touch of the divine in them. Out of an abundance of caution, superstitious folk still tread lightly around elaborate or particularly well-crafted statues that resemble clay effigies even in the slightest.
2882|Quetz Coatl|These sacred feathered serpents tirelessly serve the powers of knowledge and justice. Some operate directly as messengers and intermediaries of the deities, while others operate independently in aiding the cause of righteousness. Either way, they watch over mortals and try to influence and aid them from the shadows, shifting from plane to plane to spread wisdom and healing where they are needed. Some quetz coatls are worshipped as divinities in remote or isolated societies, and while they do not encourage such veneration, they use the trust placed in them to foster peace and cooperation with others.
2923|Tyrannosaurus|Widely regarded as the king of the dinosaurs, the tyrannosaurus is a massive predator with a wide mouth filled with viciously sharp teeth. Some tribes of 
2941|Young Empyreal Dragon|The three major celestial planes—
3008|Ghost Mage|A wizard who died with work incomplete might become a ghost mage.
3014|Fire Giant|The most militaristic of giants, fire giants focus obsessively on learning combat techniques, mastering the arts of forging weapons and armor, and finding new ways to dominate their enemies. Most fire giant communities are built around elemental rifts, hot springs, or volcanic calderas and cannot be moved easily, inspiring unwavering defense against any intruders. As a result, their social and political structures are grounded firmly in martial hierarchies, with a strict emphasis on following the orders of one's superior.
3030|Graveknight|Graveknights are undead warriors granted unlife by a cursed suit of armor.
3161|Raja-Kroodha|The most iconic rakshasas, raja-krodhas are tiger-headed hunters of mortalkind. They are incarnations of all the malice people try to deny within themselves and instead wrongly ascribe to deadly predators of the wild. Their power and skill inspire fear, but also awe, and it is not unknown for some peoples to treat such a rakshasa as a guardian, if one to be treated with extreme caution.
3308|Heliocoprion|Though not a true shark, the helicoprion belongs to a similar lineage of cartilaginous fishes. The predator's most striking feature is its tooth whorls, which spiral outward in its lower jaw.
3349|Zalavexus|Recall Knowledge - Aberration
3355|Spectral Devil|Recall Knowledge - Fiend
2305|River Elasmosaurus|This creature did not include a description.
2310|Lintwerth|This creature did not include a description.
2378|Xae|This creature did not include a description.
2387|Tulvak|This creature did not include a description.
2506|Ogmunzorius|This creature did not include a description.
2510|Ilakni|This creature did not include a description.
2511|Equendia|This creature did not include a description.
1912|Vetalarana Manipulator|A vetalarana manipulator is a gifted strategist, empowered by the memories, thoughts, and talents the manipulator has drained from countless victims and honed by centuries of survival. Certain of their own superiority, manipulators twist free-willed individuals for their own ends as easily as they control their comatose puppets.
1923|Zombie Mammoth|This monstrous creature can overrun defenses and stomp foes into the ground, making it a terror on any battlefield.
2114|Xulgath Roughrider|This creature did not include a description.
2115|Sodden Sentinel|This creature did not include a description.
2145|Nydazuul|This creature did not include a description.
2147|Solar Glass Golem|This creature did not include a description.
2277|Sepoko|This creature did not include a description.
143|Adult Brass Dragon|Brass dragons are whimsical tricksters who delight in humor and play. They particularly enjoy conversations with humans and other civilized humanoids, delighting in the naive customs of these diminutive races without showing them haughtiness or scorn. While they may seem merely curious, brass dragons engage in this sort of conversation with the goal of keeping up to date on regional politics so they can anticipate future conflicts. Along the way, they create extensive information networks that begin with their own allies but stretch across all levels of humanoid society—networks which the brass dragon then uses to subtly assist settlements near their lair. Unlike the schemes and manipulations of blue dragons, brass dragons use their informant networks to establish justice and equality.
151|Young Gold Dragon|Gold dragons are the epitome of metallic dragonkind, unrivaled in their strength as well as their wisdom. They command the unwavering reverence of all other metallic dragons, who view gold dragons as their leaders and counselors. Golds rival the raw power of even red dragons, much to the chagrin of their chromatic cousins, and the two races are often regarded as bitter rivals. But despite their incredible power, gold dragons are fond of discourse and prefer to talk through solutions to problems rather than rely upon brute strength. Long-lived as they are, they necessarily take a wide view of all situations and never act without considering all possible options and outcomes. Because of this, gold dragons willingly converse with any creature that seeks them out, even evil chromatic dragons. Mortals might find this behavior strange, considering the longstanding war between chromatic and metallic dragons, but dragons know all too well that desperate situations sometimes call for drastic alliances. And although gold dragons might consider brief truces with their chromatic brethren in the case of world-ending threats, they also know when such alliances have run their course.
464|Carnivorous Crystal|Carnivorous crystals are strange ooze creatures native to the Plane of Earth. Unlike most oozes, their bodies are not homogeneously fluid; rather, interspersed within their glassy, viscous resin are thousands of sharp mineral formations that nevertheless possess some of the same flexibility and mobility as the rest of the creature’s gooey body.
530|Faceless Butcher|The deformed flesh on this humanoid horror’s head bears grim holes where their eyes, nose, mouth, and ears should be, and little else. Stories of faceless butchers always center on the monstrous murderer’s preferred weapon: a wicked and bloodstained meat cleaver, which the butcher uses to carve flesh from skull to add to their collection of stolen faces. Once they’ve taken a victim’s face, the faceless butcher can wear it, transform into an exact replica of the deceased, and begin stalking their next victim.
593|Meladaemon (Famine Daemon)|Meladaemons personify death by starvation and thirst, and revel in spreading the same despair that brought about their mortal demise. When they aren't blighting fields, massacring livestock, or tainting water supplies, they experiment on prisoners to study how long creatures can go without sustenance and the deleterious effects that result from such deprivation. Fiercely loyal to Trelmarixian, Horseman of Famine, they serve no other beings. They work alongside other daemons if Trelmarixian wills it, but are notoriously traitorous.
601|Hezrou (Toad Demon)|Hezrous dwell in the vast and endless Abyssal swamps, mires, and waterways and are equally at home on land and in the water. A hezrou's presence has an obvious effect on nearby flora and water, causing plant life to twist and knot and infusing water with a foul odor and brackish taste—signs much easier to spot on the Material Plane than in the Abyss. Long exposure to this corruption can cause vile transformations and hideous mutations, and entire miserable communities of corrupted creatures sometimes rise in swamplands where a hezrou dwells. Hezrous themselves prefer simple pleasures, and they often waste their considerable intellect in the pursuit of comfortable places to slumber, squealing meals to eat, or objects of beauty to deface. They do not seek out cults to fawn over them but will not turn away those who seek to worship on their own. Hezrous form from the souls of those who abused and polluted their environs or neighbors, either through the introduction of toxins to the region or the insidious spread of drugs and poisons through a society. 
609|Hamatula (Barbed Devil)|Hamatulas are forged in Erebus to protect infernal vaults from those foolish enough to try to rob the archdevil 
612|Devourer|When fiends and powerful evil spellcasters are lost beyond the farthest reaches of the multiverse, they sometimes return as horrific undead called devourers that consume the souls of the living to fuel their arcane machinations. Their bodies are ruined and rebuilt, hollow and twisted, even as their minds undergo a spiritual transformation. They gain the ability to bind other souls to their own and drain their essence for magical power, yet can never be sated in their pursuit of it. Seething masses of distorted ghostly shapes surge within their hollow rib cages—manifestations of the devourers' most recently consumed souls.
628|Adult Crystal Dragon|Good-natured but vain, crystal dragons are beautiful creatures with brilliant hides made of multicolored crystal and gemstone. Their beauty is a source of great pride but is also something of a weakness, as crystal dragons are easily angered by insults about their appearance. Despite their relatively benign natures when compared to other true dragons, crystal dragons can be short tempered and prone to finding insults where none were intended. Although their opinions are changeable, crystal dragons prefer orderly environments and are not fond of sudden interruptions or distractions.
634|Young Umbral Dragon|While the other primal dragons hail from the Elemental Planes, the cruel and unceasingly malicious umbral dragons originate in the depths of the Shadow Plane. Their sleek black scales and serpentine grace allow them to strike from hiding, and they are known for playing with their prey before finally finishing it. These creatures of shadowy energy and unwholesome appetites prefer the necrotic flesh of undead creatures to any other meal. This strange hunger can be of accidental benefit to nearby humanoid societies, but ultimately they hunt and kill undead creatures for the taste, rather than out of any desire to protect others from the undead. The benefit is always short-lived, however. When umbral dragons exhaust their preferred prey, they turn on whatever living creatures happen to be nearby. Umbral dragons sometimes go to great lengths to obtain their favorite meals, even creating undead creatures that they then feast upon.
705|Isqulug|The isqulug's appearance, though unsettling, might be its least awful aspect. The creature resembles a bipedal amphibian with tentacles instead of arms and a head composed of an undulant mass of what appear to be shifting, slimy transparent eggs filled with writhing larvae. In truth, these larvae constitute the mind and consciousness of the isqulug—its “body” is little more than an organic suit manufactured from the flesh of those it has consumed, analogous to the complex web of a spider or the hive of a colony of bees, but fully capable of movement and violence.
779|Quoppopak|Quoppopaks combine the most terrifying aspects of water striders, octopuses, and vampire bats into one evil, water-dwelling monster. Their bodies consist of an oval abdomen, eight hollow tentacles, and a thick, tail-like limb ending in a ventral tube, which resembles a lamprey's mouth and is capable of intaking fluids at an astounding rate. While quoppopaks can clumsily maneuver on land, they prefer to move on water; quoppopaks glide along the surface of lakes or the ocean by thrusting their ventral tubes into the water, cycling liquid up through their bodies, then spraying the water back out in a high-pressure stream through their hollow, spear-like tentacles. Though the ventral tube can't expel fluids, it still poses a substantial threat to other creatures. Quoppopaks have gills, but they are located inside the creatures' abdomens, allowing them to draw their air from the water they siphon through their ventral tubes. Quoppopaks can hold some water in their abdomens for quick forays on land, but this is akin to humans holding their breath to go underwater, and the monsters' water reserves quickly deplete.
1027|Mari Lwyd|Nethys Note: The Mari Lwyd is a creature from the 2021 New Years celebratory blog post.
1085|Brainchild|A rumor can become so vivid and so persistent that it comes to life, creating a brainchild—a living illusion that hatches from an intense belief in a remorseless and implacable killer. Often, these rumors swirl around the victims of a 
1131|Young Sovereign Dragon|The most well-known of imperial dragons due to their deep involvement with mortals, the sovereign dragons' name comes from their mandate of selecting rulers—but at some point, the dragons themselves joined the list of worthy candidates. Other imperial dragons suspect the sovereign dragons offered their connection to the elemental cycle to attain forbidden magic, evidenced by their lack of any vulnerability to wood or ability to feed on fire, despite being creatures of the earth.
1211|Kongamato|Though they resemble pterosaurs and hail from a similar era, kongamatos are actually a primeval branch of dragonkind. They aren't particularly intelligent and lack the powerful magical abilities that many of their dragon kindred command, but a kongamato has a supernaturally strong beak that can punch through incredibly dense substances. While this beak might seem like a valuable trophy for hunters, its magic dies with the kongamato, and all attempts to integrate them into weapons have failed.
1275|Rancorous Priesthood|Followers of 
1290|Seething Spirit|Hatred so powerful it lives beyond the grave—this sentiment animates the ephemeral crimson apparitions known as seething spirits. Single-minded in nature, they stoke the fires of anger and hate, capable of planning and strategy, but the one thing beyond their grasp is personal growth. Though similar to 
1300|Skeleton Infantry|This troop of skeletons was once a cohort of highly disciplined spear-and-shield infantry from an ancient empire.
1383|Dread Dhuthorex|More intelligent than their lesser kin, dread dhuthorexes possess eerie, enchanting powers.
1420|Algea|Algeas protect (and sometimes retrieve) souls at risk of being claimed by other entities, particularly spellcasters who dabbled with otherworldly forces but never officially pledged their souls.
1469|Planar Terra-Cotta Soldier|This creature did not include a description.
1693|Halbrux Far-Sight, Cyclops Historian and Oracle|Halbrux's family is larger than most cyclops kin groups, and they claim an entire—if relatively small— island in the storm-tossed Shackles. The hilly island bears several ruins of the Ghol-Gan empire, the culture that represented the greatness of the cyclopes in an age long since perished. It was while lying in the crumbling hall of one of these ruins one night that Halbrux had the vision that changed her life.
1696|Reborn Sun Hunter|This creature did not include a description.
1697|Reborn Sun Mage|This creature did not include a description.
1714|Spawn Of Taon|This creature did not include a description.
1738|Somnalu Oculus|When 
1847|Corpseroot|Corpseroots are rotten, undead trees that grow bright-red poisonous fruit and spread blight to surrounding plants, transforming healthy trees into new corpseroots. These cunning killers drain the life from creatures through their root systems, posing as dead trees until their victims come within reach. 
2517|Bhanyada Swarm|Bhanyadas without much cohesion between their fleshy components roil around one another in a ghastly swarm of malodorous gobs of flesh.
2552|Harpy Warbird|This creature did not include a description.
2559|The Shadow Prince|This creature did not include a description.
2565|Crystalline Sentinel|This creature did not include a description.
2621|Veldenar|Some dangers lurking within the Endless Sky can doom prey before they even realize it; such are the ambush tactics of the 20-foot-tall elementals known as veldenars. Their inherent invisibility and pale, almost translucent forms make them among the most deadly creatures to call the 
2653|Oregorger|Oregorgers are hulking, four-limbed brutes with bodies of raw primal metals accreted in layers. Driven entirely by an insatiable drive to consume metal, an oregorger stops at nothing to greedily devour as much metal as it can and expel it as caustic rust.
2657|Pelegox|Pelegoxes are beings of condensed magnetic energy that fashion bodies for themselves using their surroundings. Though a pelegox's true form is a spherical core, it pulls metal fragments of various shapes and sizes to form a polyhedral shell. Though pelegoxes might develop preferences for a particular form when at rest, they continue to look for new configurations to call their own, happiest when they can experiment with endless possibilities, even if it means dismantling other metallic entities.
2679|Elemental Thicket|In the 
2682|Kizidhar Shuyookh|Kizidhar shuyookhs are the powerful rulers of the Glowing Infinity on the 
2704|Gray Worm|One subspecies that some call unnatural is the gray worm. It is theorized that these cave worms hatched near the corpses of thousands of graves, perhaps deep in the layers of the Darklands that once held large populations at the moment of Starfall. The negative energy associated with the collective extinction of so much life has warped these worms so that they embody the misery and death caused by the cataclysm. They are unique among cave worms in that they prefer not to swallow prey alive, but to eat only dead flesh.
2776|Nue|A nue is an ancient creature of enormous size and destructive power. Though sightings are rare, it's described as having the head of a monkey, the body of a tanuki, the limbs of a tiger, and a snake for a tail. The beast's eerie body is matched by its ability to drain the life force of those around it just by howling.
2802|Imprecasia|An imprecasia, commonly known as a curse eater, is a solitary fey drawn to the energy emanating from curses. They appear as emaciated humanoid creatures with shadowy wings, long thin hands with sharp claws, and insectile heads with feathery antenna.
2931|Gosreg (Harvest Beacon)|Gosregs are agents of the Dominion of the Black who insinuate themselves into humanoid societies to implement the goals of their sinister masters. They're generally tasked with observing and waiting, hiding in disguised forms until their location is ripe for harvest. When this occurs, they reveal themselves as living psychic beacons, signaling their distant masters and guiding invasion forces. Over the years of an infiltration, a gosreg will assume dozens of roles, relishing any intense emotions it can inspire while laying the groundwork for future identities.
2938|Young Diabolic Dragon|Hell
2954|Adult Omen Dragon|Fate is a fickle matter on Golarion. Even with prophecy broken on the world, there are ways to look to the immediate future or acquire a vague sense of long-term events. Omen dragons are bound to see the future—nebulous though it might be—at all times. Visions of the future hound them like a quiet song that never stops playing in their minds. While an omen dragon can focus on or ignore the music of fate at any time, the song plays all the same. At a glance, omen dragons resemble other occult dragons in appearance, save for the mirror-like interior membrane of their wings. An omen dragon's wings offer glimpses into the future. These glimpses are cloudy and vague, but generally correct, if only technically. Omen dragons have a natural compulsion to share the futures they see. These dragons have no compunctions about what the visions show and share their knowledge equally with innocent villagers as they do with wicked tyrants.
2976|Elemental Hurricane|Elemental hurricanes embody the ferocity of violent windstorms.
2980|Elemental Avalanche|Stubborn and ponderous, elemental avalanches are massive beings of living rock and dirt. Once their ire is raised, they will take the shortest route to resolving the problem, usually by burying it in rock.
2984|Elemental Inferno|Walking conflagrations of unimaginably hot fire, elemental infernos are harbingers of destruction and heedless chaos. More tactical than many elementals, the infernos will set entire cities ablaze to confuse enemies.
2992|Elemental Tsunami|Elemental tsunamis are huge and destructive, having none of the caring or nurturing aspects of water.
3015|Cloud Giant|The graceful and regal cloud giants are fractious, with roughly half their clans believing they should rule over humanoids regardless of their size and the rest shying away from any contact with outsiders. Due to the physical and ideological distance between clans, most rely on 
3095|Deadly Mantis|These gigantic mantids make their homes within prehistoric forests.
3106|Greater Nightmare|The enormous greater nightmare is valued for its ability to invade other realities with its rider.
3209|Goliath Spider|Goliath spiders dwell in the deepest jungles, where they build webs as big as temples and feast on prey as large as hippopotamuses.
3213|Stone Bulwark|Stone bulwarks are slow and steady constructs typically carved from marble or granite. They're often made to serve as works of art when at rest, so some magical crafters employ master sculptors to ensure their constructs make beautiful statues. Older stone bulwarks might be weathered, with scuffed or cracked surfaces or missing noses and digits, but this weathering is largely cosmetic and doesn't adversely impact the bulwark's functionality. 
3287|Ascendant Griffon|This griffon is aptly named for both its majestic appearance in flight and its increased ferocity over the common griffon. Despite its size, the sheer muscle mass present in this creature makes flight seem effortless, if preposterous. It makes its home among the canopies of the most ancient forests and atop the peaks of the greatest mountains, hunting its prey from above with silent and deadly accuracy. The ascendant griffon prefers to hunt other large creatures within its territory, such as bears, but they will not hesitate to attack smaller prey they perceive as a threat to their territory. Whether an ascendant griffon is a new evolutionary development or a throwback to a more primeval version of the creature is difficult to determine. Further research into these exceptional creatures may provide insight into their origins and perhaps the origins of all griffons.
3294|Tyrafdir|The process of sapient species finding kinship with those who are less self-aware can be observed easily throughout the natural world. Humanoids keep dogs, kobolds care for reptiles, and so on. More terrifying, as it is on a grander scale, 
3310|Sky Fisher|The sky fisher is an unusual aerial predator, mostly found in tropical jungle regions but occasionally seen as far north as Varisia. Naturalists believe it's a distant relative of the jellyfish that has evolved into a new ecological niche through prolonged exposure to elemental energies from the 
3354|Jervis Stoot|Recall Knowledge - Undead
2316|Fen Pudding|This creature did not include a description.
2318|Sister Of The Bloodshot Eye|This creature did not include a description.
2319|Vicious Army Ant Swarm|This creature did not include a description.
2322|Pitax Warden|This creature did not include a description.
2514|Ainamuuren, Corrupted Victim Of Osoyo|Osoyo is alien to Golarion, and while it was first encountered by the 
1879|Llorona|Vengeful spirits called lloronas arise from people who died overcome with the grief and shame that comes with the tragic drowning of a child. In life, a llorona may have contributed to the child's death or simply lost the child to a horrible accident. In death, a llorona's pain manifests as a malevolent desire to drown others, imparting the same grief that they share with the person's loved ones. To this end, lloronas remain along riversides and other bodies of water in hopes of drawing their next victim and compelling them to drown themselves.
1882|Relictner|Regardless of age, relictners look like ancient 
1889|Onryo|Onryos are created when a person dies violently in the grip of extreme emotion, such as unbridled rage or overwhelming sorrow. These twisted undead return as beings of pure vengeance, seeking to endlessly spread suffering. Onryos torment those who killed them, but not by directly attacking their murderer. Instead, an onryo hunts down the friends, family members, and anyone connected to their foe. In doing so, the onryo inflicts as much torment as possible on the person responsible for their demise. An onryo's vengeful nature persists indefinitely; not even the death of their killer sates their lust for destruction. Vengeance is just a way for them to spread their pain to others, and they quickly find new targets for their ire. Onryos always wear funeral clothing, often dripping wet or covered in filth. Most of them also display wounds or signs indicating how they died. As they move, onryos seem to pop in and out of existence, making them difficult to track in combat.
1917|Wight Commander|When the beloved leader of a military unit is raised as a wight, sometimes the spirits of their comrades return with them, creating a gestalt being of impeccable tactical acumen.
1981|Clockwork Puppeteer|Clockwork puppeteers are grim constructs capable of controlling corpses like puppets. They typically stand 12 feet tall and have spindly legs and long arms ending with scalpel-like claws. Dozens of metallic strings, composed of interlocking clockwork links, hang from their wrists.
2078|Agathion, Guloval|Agathions are born from petitioners who achieved enlightenment in life or after death and received 
2097|Vampire Taviah|This creature did not include a description.
2120|War Sauropelta|This creature did not include a description.
2123|Xulgath Hardscale|This creature did not include a description.
2124|Arskuva The Gnasher|This creature did not include a description.
2261|Oversized Chimera|This creature did not include a description.
134|Adult Green Dragon|Green dragons are the most contemplative of the chromatic dragons as well as the most approachable. The key to understanding green dragons is to understand their obsession with knowledge and self-discipline. Any careful approach that takes advantage of a green dragon’s fixations may end in a diplomatic outcome, but any misstep or slight can provoke a savage attack. Like most chromatic dragons, green dragons do not suffer fools—and the threshold for what they consider foolish is very low.
466|Deculi|These batlike monstrosities inhabit the nooks and crevices of the Darklands, where they hang from stalactites and swoop down on unsuspecting prey. Though they are completely sightless, deculis possess rudimentary nerves in their skulls that allow them to detect the presence of infrared light—information they use to locate potential food and threats. They are deadly hunters, thanks largely to their magical ability to manipulate the ebb and flow of shadows. Deculis prefer to feed upon the warm blood of freshly killed prey, but they can subsist on carrion if they have to.
556|Athach|The towering and brutish giants known as athaches are reviled for both their monstrosity and their cruelty. Beyond an athach's filthy habits, this giant is made stranger by the gangly third arm that protrudes from their torso and ends in a twitching, long-fingered claw. Huge, tusk-like fangs descend from an athach's upper jaw and prop their mouth open, leaking long strands of viscous drool that is itself is a toxic venom and coats the athach's fangs.
579|Catoblepas|The catoblepas is an aggressive beast at the best of times. Though it prefers swamps, the catoblepas has been know to forage in plains and forests for short periods, leaving behind hunting grounds tainted by its foul breath and noxious waste that other predators and prey alike avoid for days or even weeks thereafter. The catoblepas bullies those creatures it believes are a match for it, and eats everything weaker.
594|Derghodaemon (Ravager Daemon)|Derghodaemons represent death through unfathomable violence and being eaten alive. Whether in life a ravenous murderer hacked them to bits for stew, a werewolf tore them limb from limb, or they simply succumbed to the elements and became worm meat, derghodaemons seek to inflict the same twisted and bloody ends upon any they come across. Unlike some daemons, derghodaemons derive little pleasure from prolonged deaths—to these fiends, the quicker they can enact a gory demise, the sooner they can turn their attentions to their next victim and repeat the violent cycle.
622|Adult Brine Dragon|Brine dragons are usually blue-green in color, with shiny scales, crests that help them glide through the water, and sweeping neck frills. They care little for either good or evil. As they are both opinionated and willing to impose their sense of order on others, many brine dragons eventually seek to rule over a meticulously crafted community. These communities are orderly and well-planned, with rigid standards of courtesy and unchanging laws set down by the dragon themself. A settlement seeded by a brine dragon can be made of members of almost any ancestry, but the most common inhabitants are humans, merfolk, tengus, or sahuagin.
677|Frost Worm|The frost worm's single round, red eye gleams prominently at the head of its monstrous mass, white as a winter snowfall. What appears to be a bifurcated lower jaw is actually two spiky parapodia that the worm uses to shovel food into its lamprey-like mouth. An adult frost worm measures 35 feet long and weighs 8,000 pounds.
680|Taiga Giant|Taiga giants prefer a nomadic lifestyle, both to keep from depleting any one area's resources while satiating their massive appetites and to satisfy a constant wanderlust. They are deeply spiritual and frequently commune with their ancestors' spirits for guidance and knowledge. Taiga giants are happiest when they are left alone to live out their traditional lives, and their impressive size and strength are enough to persuade all but the most dangerous foes to do so.
775|Chernobue|The chernobue infects all creatures it encounters with itself, spreading pain and calamity wherever it flops and writhes. It sheds ruin and sups on anguish, but a chernobue can sometimes be persuaded to pause for a few moments of conversation if its partner in discourse can keep its attention by providing enough atrocious details. Resembling a tumor-like growth of oily blackness, this vile monstrosity has numerous muscular tentacles, a single glaring baleful eye, and a drooling, toothy maw in the middle of its body.
851|Interlocutor|Interlocutors are the most talented surgeon-sculptors of the velstracs, carving away flesh and replacing it with new body parts of muscle, sinew, and metal. Each interlocutor structures their individual appearance carefully, but all are towering, multi-limbed amalgamations of the strongest limbs, densest bone, and sharpest metal they can find. They continually search for new material to graft to their forms, and their slain foes are rarely found intact, as little is more valuable to interlocutors than a powerful opponent's legs, eyes, or even brain. Interlocutors average 9 feet tall and weigh approximately 800 pounds.
881|Xulgath Deepmouth|Xulgath deepmouths wield the powers of the 
1014|Zealborn|Zealborn arise from mortals who become consumed by a noble or idealistic vision and choose undeath as a means of pursuing that vision. Unlike 
1068|Arboreal Archive|Arboreal archives are solitary beings typically found in the remote wilderness. These ancient monoliths hold the memories of their vast territories, keeping mental records of the passing seasons of the world around them. Their knowledge of humanoid affairs varies, as they find quickly shifting political situations difficult to comprehend, but through fungal networks, reports from 
1089|Calikang|Calikangs are giant, blue-skinned, six-armed guardians of ancient tombs and treasuries. They each feel a deep, inherent drive to protect and guard, making them highly sought after as wardens and bodyguards. Because most serve as solitary guardians, few calikang societies exist.
1171|Girtablilu Seer|The highest position of authority in a girtablilu community is the group's religious leader. This sacred duty requires years of study, meditation, and dedication to awaken a mystical font of divine magic within the girtablilu. These seers ensure that every action taken by the community falls in line with even the most obscure dogma of their tradition, and they don't hesitate to turn their fury on members of their own community who violate their mandates.
1210|Kokogiak|As deadly on land as in the water, kokogiaks are one of the most feared predators of the tundra. From a distance they might be mistaken for a frightfully large 
1337|Tidehawk|Tidehawks, avian embodiments of the sea and rain, nest in deep underwater crevasses and glide among waves. They feed mostly on large sea life and rise above the surface during or in the aftermath of a rainstorm to bask in the fresh moisture of the air.
1355|Valkyrie|Choosers of the slain and so-called angels of battle, the song of the valkyries plays wherever steel rings against steel. Valkyries are humanoid individuals of impressive physical stature who seek the most epic battles and legendary conflicts so that they can lay claim to the souls of the world's greatest warriors. The valkyries transform these souls into the implacable immortals known as 
1572|Lazurite-Infused Stone Golem|This creature did not include a description.
1733|Kuworsys|At a distance, the creature known as Kuworsys might be mistaken for a crawling undead hand, possessed of two thumbs instead of one. These “thumbs” are actually the being's hind limbs, which it can clumsily stand upon should it choose. Each of its fingerlike limbs bears a smaller hand on the end, giving Kuworsys an eerie gait possessed of too many moving joints. Wedged within the wrist-shaped tissue that makes up the creature's head are three bloodshot eyes, glaring balefully from lids twisted into shape from ropes of flesh.
2518|Bhanyada Behemoth|The largest bhanyadas are made up of tens of thousands of component parts, all mashed together into a roughly humanoid shape that walks on stumpy legs. Bhanyada behemoths usually have at least four thick arms ending in meaty fists, although some behemoths have a profusion of hands sprouting from their torsos. A bhanyada behemoth's head is studded with tiny eyes all over its surface that observe the surrounding terrain and give information so the entire amalgamation can move in unison.
2519|Ferrugon (Rust Devil)|Ram-headed devils with wings and flesh of rusted metal, ferrugons prefer temptation to fighting. They're forged from the souls of damned mortals who made others suffer through their creative work. They like to collect those of the same ilk, often by dipping the bodies of mortals they've driven to despair into molten metal to make horrifically malformed statues they add to their lairs.
2573|All-Seeing Hajeck, Reincarnated Visionary Charlatan|In her previous life, All-Seeing Hajeck was a small-time charlatan, but soon after she joined a traveling show called the Umbra Carnival she inherited a powerful magical artifact: the 
2709|Stoneriver|A servant of 
2766|Aso Berang|Deep within the woods are grand, giant creatures with tusked maws. Their visages have inspired various tusked demon masks used for great festivals across Tian Xia. These beasts are known as aso berangs, or bear dogs, in the islands of Minata. As their name suggests, they resemble large canines with the bulk of a bear. However, aso berangs aren't simply large and charismatic animals, for many say they're the kings of forest spirits and patrons of guardians. They're often revered as protective entities by those who live outside the woods they guard. These guardians only appear to common folk if the forest they live in is in danger or if they need something. When they do so, aso berangs can appear as large and powerful humans who emanate a regal presence.
2805|Path Maiden|Worshippers in Shenmen who devote their every breath to Pharasma only to defy the goddess with their last sometimes transform, upon death, into path maidens. The garments all path maidens wear are the last vestiges of their former faith, a permanent reminder of their disgrace.
2808|False Governor|Recall Knowledge - Fiend
2890|Great Cyclops|Gigantic loners, the great cyclopes are their lesser kin writ large. They're stronger and more violent, but their uncontrolled vision of possible futures has driven them beyond reason. They see every moment as a potential storm of uncontrollable fury and, out of a desperate desire for peace, quiet, and an end to their hunger, lash out at any who come near. Wise creatures avoid great cyclopes at all cost. It's fortunate for humanoids that great cyclopes prefer to dwell far from settlements.
2898|Omox (Slime Demon)|Seemingly made from living, animated filth, omoxes have no true anatomy, although they generally spend most of their time in roughly 
3018|Gimmerling|Gimmerlings are small, shapeshifting fey who stage ambushes to sate their endless hunger and childish greed. These cruelly curious fey obsess over finding and making unusual traps and sadistic weapons, and their favorite amusement is seeing these traps sprung or the weapons wielded. When residing on Golarion, they're frequently found in urban areas, particularly slums or other parts of town, where they can either go unnoticed or be easily forgotten—and have plenty of victims to choose from.
3082|Lich|A wizard whose insatiable desire for arcane power eclipsed their mortal life, the lich is a truly devious and versatile spellcaster.
3191|Shuln|Scourges of the upper Darklands, these enormous, mole-like monstrosities slice and burrow through solid stone with massive forearms and adamantine-strong claws. Shulns grow to about 20 feet long and have four tiny, nearly imperceptible eyes; a long, pale snout; four thick-muscled legs that end in long, serrated claws; and a stubby pink tail. As a young shuln matures, its unique metabolism produces adamantine that becomes infused throughout its skeletal system. In addition to making their claws and fangs nearly unbreakable, this unique physiological trait makes shulns unparalleled burrowers and highly sought by monster hunters who hope to harvest the precious material from their corpses.
3284|Lightning Turtle|Lightning turtles have a reputation as kind protectors of those lost or injured at sea. Their unique ability to promote healing by stimulating the body's natural bioelectricity has led to many attempts over the year to domesticate the creatures, but none have been successful.
3299|Desert Manticore|Desert manticores are far more dangerous than their common cousins and only marginally cleverer. Instead of the usually spiked tail reminiscent of a porcupine, desert manticores have large scorpion tails, requiring them to adopt closer approaches and cunning ambushes. Desert manticores are known for their egos and constant attempts to outmatch 
3317|Tardigrade Swarm|Recall Knowledge - Animal
3357|Tiluatchek|Recall Knowledge - Aberration
3358|Kaleb Valdemar's Body|Recall Knowledge - Aberration
3363|Coloxus (Fly Demon)|Although the coloxus has the hideous head of a monstrous fly, these demons are fastidious and clean, always dressing in stylish clothing without a blemish on them. Coloxuses are manipulators and schemers born from destructively vain souls. Evil mortals are fond of conjuring them to serve as emissaries or spies, but they also make excellent assassins. Even in the role of murderer, the demon remains cloyingly polite and formal, reveling in the irony of perpetuating such a horrible crime under the guise of good etiquette, as if it were a delicate bit of diplomacy.
1887|Mummy Prophet of Set|In ancient Osirion, worshipers completely devoted to the evil god 
1894|Silent Stalker|When a person is betrayed and killed in a way that their voice was silenced (such as through strangulation by a lover or close confidante), they might come back as a silent stalker. A silent stalker is a horrifying, twisted likeness of the person they were in life, with one obvious difference: the silent stalker has no mouth, simply a smooth patch of flesh where a mouth should be. Sound is suppressed in an area around a silent stalker, but once someone notices the quiet, it's often too late.
1904|Skeletal Titan|Only the powerful and foolish would raise the bones of a mighty 
1944|Strigoi Progenitor|The most powerful strigoi are those intentionally summoned into the bodies of willing hosts in times long past. As the rites to do so are lost to time, very few strigoi progenitors exist today. Those who do trace their lives back well over ten thousand years ago to Thassilon, Azlant, or similar ancient empires. A strigoi progenitor may appear to possess the vitality of the living, yet closer inspection reveals sharp fangs, the faintest smell of decay, and the strange and unsettling shifting of their shadow. In life, this example strigoi progenitor was a powerful oracle and advisor in Runelord Sorshen's nation of Eurythnia.
1963|Ileosa's Shell|This creature did not include a description.
2072|Cocoon Of Lucid Potential|This creature did not include a description.
2110|Skarja|Skarja has been collecting souls on the Isle of Kortos for many years. Recently, the night hag set her sights on corrupting and culling the soul of the Swardlands' most prominent citizen, Opper Vandy.
2140|Barking Stag|This creature did not include a description.
2152|Bloodshroud|During the war between Geb and Nex, necromancers conducted dangerous magical experiments to gain every possible advantage over their enemies. One such endeavor attempted to distill the essence of vampiric mists to create a protective shroud for an army of undead maguses.
2155|Ghoul Razorclaw|Ghoul assassins who survive dipping their claws in molten 
2243|Hooktongue Hydra|This creature did not include a description.
37|Ghaele (Crusader Azata)|Ghaeles are fiend-hunting knights of Elysium and champions of the freedom to take up arms against oppressors and other evils. Ghaeles rarely engage directly in mortal wars, but where fiends are involved they make an exception. A ghaele might assume the guise of a mortal to fight fiends alongside others, hoping to bolster morale and teach good tactics against such supernatural foes. Ghaeles serve various deities and empyreal lords of Elysium, though many have an affinity for Cayden Cailean in his capacity as a champion of freedom and defender of the downtrodden. Among azatas, ghaeles are generally the quickest to shift to violence as a method of solving problems, but even then they seek to minimize pain and suffering when they can.
101|Glabrezu (Treachery Demon)|Glabrezus are looming behemoths who revel in the act of twisting mortal desires into their ultimate ruin, betraying and manipulating as easily as they breathe. Desires granted by a glabrezu always come to fruition in the most destructive way possible, turning a wish or hope into a potent and devastating act of betrayal—although the long-term repercussions are not always immediately apparent. For example, a struggling weapon smith might wish for fame and skill at their craft, only to find that their best patron is a cruel and sadistic murderer who uses the weapons in bloody sprees. Or a lonely widower might have his desire granted in the form of a lost love returned to “life” as a vampire. Glabrezus are nothing if not creative in addressing a mortal’s needs.
113|Gelugon (Ice Devil)|Insectile ice devils are strategists and masterminds in Hell’s armies, using their superior intellect to strike against their enemies and spread Hell’s influence throughout the planes. An ice devil rarely breaks their solitary contemplation of strategy save to pursue a plan they have devised. They can be enticed otherwise only by an exchange of services to be determined at a later time, adding to the pieces they can play on the board. Occasionally, a mortal strategist of outstanding skill might amuse an ice devil enough for the gelugon to agree to a contest of strategy, typically a strategic board game like chess, to decide a dispute. In the unlikely event the devil loses such a contest, they inevitably go to great lengths to later obtain that mortal’s services for their own infernal ends.
225|Storm Giant|Storm giants are looming but benevolent stewards of sea and sky, often serving as the natural guardians of tropical islands, coastlines, or rocky archipelagos. Storm giants tend to rapidly shift in mood and behavior, one moment engaging in peaceful negotiation, the next unleashing unbridled ferocity against their foes. In this way, they embody both the fury of a raging tempest and the calm of a hurricane’s eye. This can make them valuable allies who race to the aid of those in need, but their allies remain must be alert and mindful of their mood, as the giants can be quick to anger or aggressive when caution is most appropriate.
465|Dalos|Dalos are reclusive fey that dwell within or near remote volcanoes and volcanic vents and resemble the massive calderas they call home. They more often dwell within the superheated confines of these locales than in the “cold wastelands” beyond their warmth and are therefore rarely encountered outside such environments. Like most fey, dalos are capricious and vengeful. They hate being disturbed above all else and will often warn away intruders with only the throw of a red-hot boulder before attacking outright.
472|Dragonscarred Dead|Not all would-be dragonslayers who die a valiant death rest peacefully amid the annals of legend. Sometimes, a draconic necromancer is so impressed by its fallen foe that the dragon ritually raises the dead warrior to serve the dragon in undeath. These undead guardians are infused with a fraction of the power of the dragon who slew them, channeling the same energy as their draconic masters’ breath.
529|Doblagub (Elder Brughadatch)|Elder brughadatches command groups of fellow brughadatches, who placate the doblagub with fresh meals and trophies of the group’s grisly catches.
595|Thanadaemon (Death Daemon)|Also known as the deacons of death, thanadaemons represent death via old age. They are among the most patient daemons, and prefer to bide their time to enact far-reaching, decades-long plans rather than fight (though they are still deadly foes). Like the Horseman of Death, they ply the waters of the River Styx in search of wayward souls. Rarely are thanadaemons seen without a trademark oar (which they wield as a 
632|Adult Magma Dragon|Magma dragons have a reputation among other dragons for being unpredictable and brash. Their temperament and tendency for violent outbursts ensure that the typical magma dragon lives a solitary life, with hatchlings often bickering or fighting to establish dominance among themselves before they leave the nest. A magma dragon always has a reason for their outbursts and can always justify their sudden turns in mood, yet they rarely feel the need to do so.
676|Froghemoth|A terrifying abomination of teeth, tentacles, and unbridled rage, the froghemoth is thankfully rarely encountered even in the deepest swamplands or most remote Darklands caverns. Capable of devouring dinosaurs and even dragons, it is a frighteningly effective ambush hunter, immersing itself in the mire with only its eyestalk protruding and watching in every direction at once with uncanny precision.
713|Leng Spider|The monstrous, bloated spiders from the windswept realm of Leng build eerie, dangerous lairs with the aid of magically compelled slaves. Leng spiders have anywhere from five to 13 legs, but never an even number.
755|Carnivorous Blob|Carnivorous blobs are the ravenous spawn of shattered worlds far beyond the stars, born across the galaxy in inert form until they fall like meteorites onto unsuspecting worlds. These massive beings can lie dormant for years in desolate caverns or barren wastelands. When a carnivorous blob perceives living creatures nearby, it lurches to gelatinous life, seeking out and consuming every creature it can catch until it is destroyed or until it has been unable to locate food for 24 hours, at which point it returns to hibernation. Often, keeping food away from a carnivorous blob is the safest way to defeat it. The blob's ability to split into smaller oozes that might stay hidden after a fight means it can be hard to fully eradicate these mindless predators.
1065|Animated Trebuchet|Large armies sometimes pay exorbitant fees to animate their siege weapons.
1101|Consonite Choir|Floods of crystalline blades called consonite choirs surge through the caverns and tunnels of the 
1129|Adult Sky Dragon|Sky dragons live above the clouds near the summits of mountains. They maintain a strong religious tradition, a unique practice among imperial dragons that sets them apart as much as their wings do. Desperate souls risk steep cliffs and loose snow to seek these dragons' counsel, and most sky dragons gladly help those who make the journey, but they expel any express hostilities or badger without hesitation.
1149|Adachros|When a nascent demiplane fails to coalesce, its quintessence sometimes collapses into an adachros, a dangerous entity that combines overwhelming mental potential with no exposure to alternate viewpoints. Some of these megalomaniacal beings are tyrants, creating illusory kingdoms populated by abducted creatures forced to validate the creator's views. A more altruistic adachros might seek out pupils to reeducate and advise—though often without their consent—while always pushing their students to accept whatever unique philosophy was involved in their creation. An adachros might abandon disciples who spurn them, but more often, they become a bitter enemy, intent on destroying the perceived heretics.
1222|Living Rune|The most famous living runes are those of the ancient Runelords of Thassilon, resurging as Thassilon rebuilds in the modern era. Other living runes can be found, however, each with its own particular abilities. Living runes can also be crafted to deal different types of energy damage with their Strikes.
1228|Millindemalion|Millindemalion are cruel fey tricksters capable of causing mayhem with their magical, mind-altering hats. Many folk tales from around the world speak of industrious fey who help struggling crafters—cobblers, milliners, tailors, and so on—during the night, creating quality wares in secret for no payment greater than a crumb of bread or a saucer of cream. These stories hold a grain of truth, as gracious fey do occasionally journey from the 
1258|Owb Prophet|An owb who comes into contact and is chosen by one of the Forsaken gains a fragment of that demigod's power and forges a permanent connection with it. This act transforms the owb into a larger, more powerful creature and imbues it with the power of divine transference, allowing the owb to gain followers and grant spells to them. These are owb prophets.
1333|Terra-Cotta Garrison|These constructed warriors can work together as a trained group to repel intruders.
1398|Caustic Monitor|Caustic monitors are enormous lizards native to eastern Minata known and named for the corrosive enzyme in their mucus, saliva, and other bodily fluids. These corrosive fluids originally developed as a means of protection from large insects such as giant mosquitos. The thick layer of mucus that naturally coats the monitors' scaly skin makes it difficult for most other creatures to get too close, let alone prey upon the lizard.
1455|Kannitri|This creature did not include a description.
1563|Talamira|This creature did not include a description.
1564|Xevalorg|This creature did not include a description.
1661|Ba'aupa Mdoudu|Ba'aupa mdoudus are solitary, bone-eating creatures that prefer to feed on remains found on battlefields or within necropolises—the more ancient, the better. When unable to locate buried remains, ba'aupa mdoudus are drawn reluctantly to the surface in search of bones from the living; living bones can sustain a ba'aupa mdoudu, but the flavor (particularly the temperature of warm bones fresh from the flesh) unsettles them a bit.
1702|Soul Swarm|This creature did not include a description.
1703|Gold Defender|This creature did not include a description.
1704|Gold Defender Garrison|This creature did not include a description.
1706|Living-Sun Spire|This creature did not include a description.
1814|Hora Queen|Hora queens rule over wide stretches of land, nourishing and protecting native animals and plants. Most hora queens watch over their regions in pairs: one summer and one winter, or one autumn and one spring.
1831|Hegremon, Human Hunter of the Tusk Mountains|Leader of the Graylok clan of frost giants, Hegremon is a lonely and isolated creature feared by his own people.
1848|Vanyver (Nightwing)|Vanyvers are large, humanoid bats shaped from void and shadowstuff, their red eyes glowing like tiny stars in an otherwise lightless night. Though powerful, they're the least of the darvakkas, and the most likely to submit to a master, either another of their kind or a mortal with a reputation for being especially murderous and destructive. Vanyvers agree to follow their masters as a temporary means of maximizing the death and destruction they can enact but will quickly turn on any master they feel falters in this goal.
2525|Demonic Rabble|The typical demon throng consists of a chaotic mix of less powerful demons— typically 
2562|Quoppopak Mummy|This creature did not include a description.
2564|Xiuli Cachu|This creature did not include a description.
2575|Ulsiket, Friendly Pactmaster Agent|An elite representative of the Pactmasters of Katapesh, Usilket is a child of Pactmaster Krimiltuk. Usilket expressed a genderfluid identity long before their training as an agent of the Katapeshi 
2626|Elder Outcrop|An outcrop of dense stone that spends ages eroding can gain sapience and slowly awaken with the wisdom of nature. Such elemental beings are slow to action and difficult to anger, spurred only by immediate threats.
2635|Living Magma|Living magmas can lie dormant for centuries below the earth before they awaken from their slumber in a fiery a volcanic eruption. This is especially dangerous when entire colonies of the molten elementals arise at the same time.
2654|Melomach|Melomachs are massive, vaguely humanoid elementals composed of metal debris. They take great pride in decorating and augmenting their metallic bodies with haphazardly placed spikes, blades, humanoid or bestial skulls, and other similar adornments, the more ostentatious the better. When two melomachs meet, the resulting contests of physical might and vocal prowess can last for days, often leaving the landscape ravaged for miles in every direction.
2666|Saltborn Stalkers|The briny depths of the Boundless Sea sometimes twist large groups of merfolk into swarms with vicious rows of teeth and sharp claws known as saltborn stalkers. Saltborn stalkers hunt in groups, using their drooping, tentacle-like appendages as bioluminescent lures, posing them as wisps or bubbles of planar energy to draw unsuspecting prey into clever ambushes.
2680|Twins of Rowan|Twins of rowan are among the most powerful elementals on the 
2933|Adult Adamantine Dragon|The powerful adamantine dragons are one of several dragons known as skymetal dragons. The innate magic that flows through these dragons causes them to draw particular metals to their bodies like magnets or, in some cases, naturally grow these skymetals on their bodies. Adamantine dragons begin their lives with tough scales that are naturally replaced with thicker and even tougher adamantine plating as they grow older. Adamantine dragons are typically steadfast and loyal. Once they commit to a certain purpose, changing their minds is nigh impossible.
2951|Adult Mirage Dragon|Mirage dragons are masters of illusion magic and use their powers to deceive others and further their own agendas. In addition to their magical prowess, mirage dragons possess a number of additional features to help them on hunts or mislead attackers, such as their camouflaging scales and a hallucinatory breath that can confound multiple foes at once. Mirage dragons are vain and egotistical figures. They ultimately care more about themselves than others.
3016|Shadow Giant|Shadow giants are natives of 
3122|Snow Oni|Snow oni maintain their seething temperaments even in their icy homes. The isolation of their environment gives them trappings of asceticism, and many snow oni pursue physical perfection, reveling in the process of turning their bodies into powerful fighting machines. They are just as hedonistic and brutal as any of their brethren, however, and eager to indulge in warm baths, strong drink, and humanoid flesh.
3158|Quai Dau To|This big-headed beast is covered in glittering scales; its eyes are like large copper pots, and its mouth is full of sharp teeth. Despite its fish-like appearance, a quai dau to spends most of its time on land hunting along riversides or lakes. It uses its trunk to drain the nearby water before using it with deadly skill. A quai dau to can expel the water with a force strong enough to knock a knight off a horse, or gently enough to surround themself in a veil of mist.
3255|Royal Basilisk|The royal basilisk is aptly named, not for only the metal crown upon its head but also for the unique potency of its poison. The creature's poison manifests as a sort of cloying vapor that sticks onto and eats away at anything it touches. Their mastery of poison does appear to come at a cost, as the royal basilisk has no ability to petrify its prey. Although the royal basilisk can painstakingly shape a crown, some made of simple iron and others of rare skymetals, they much prefer to collect crowns crafted by other creatures.
2324|Gaetane|This creature did not include a description.
2330|General Avinash Jurrg|This creature did not include a description.
2332|Alasen|This creature did not include a description.
2336|Kellid Graveknight|This creature did not include a description.
2340|Thresholder Disciple|This creature did not include a description.
2344|Elder Elemental Tsunami|This creature did not include a description.
1869|Graveknight Warmaster|Exemplars of undying violence, graveknight warmasters are devastating forces on the battlefield, able to spur allies to ever greater levels of violence.
2111|Thessekka|As a leader in the xulgath incursion of the surface of the Isle of Kortos, Thessekka—a xulgath alchemist with the powers of a stoneliege and more—has risen swiftly through the ranks of her Darklands kin, although her hunger for domination is far from sated.
2113|Starved Staff|This creature did not include a description.
2146|Yurgak|This creature did not include a description.
2159|Terrorguard|Spellcasters who harness the power of the 
2239|Hooktongue|This creature did not include a description.
2258|Speartooth|This creature did not include a description.
398|Uthul|An uthul most often appears to be a dark, swirling cloud filled with flying debris and streaked with sudden flashes of lightning. Although they are clearly elemental in nature, uthuls are nearly always found on the Material Plane, where they hide among natural cloud formations, especially thunderstorms.
526|Giant Aukashungi|The strongest individual in an aukashungi swarm eventually grows to monstrous proportions.
547|Ankou|Ankous are shadowy killers who serve powerful fey creatures, or even the Eldest— the demigods of the First World. Amid the courts of the Eldest or of powerful fey rulers, these sinister assassins lurk overhead as they await the call to action—implied threats akin to deadly weapons hung as decor in a royal hall. Ankous never speak aloud; when they feel the need to communicate at all, they do so in a telepathic whisper directly into a victim's mind. While an ankou's body is made of strange, fleshy material, their claws and the cruel hooks on their wings are made of razor-sharp cold iron, a quality that makes them much feared among other fey. A typical ankou is 10 feet tall and has an 8-foot wingspan but weighs less than 80 pounds.
552|Trumpet Archon|Trumpet archons are messengers, emissaries, and storytellers—embodiments of the virtue of kindness. They use stories and allegories to prevent bloodshed, and among all archons they are the most likely to work together with angels, perhaps leading to the similarities in their forms. When diplomacy is impossible, trumpet archons rally the righteous to battle—one reassuring glance from a trumpet archon is often all it takes to instill a shaken ally with resounding courage once again.
602|Nalfeshnee (Boar Demon)|Nalfeshnees are huge, corpulent, boar-headed demons that hoard treasures and knowledge alike and form from the souls of avaricious mortals. Few demons understand the inner workings of the 
620|Doprillu|The aberrations known as doprillus are hulks with banded muscles who wear ornate masks at all times that fill their wearers with magical strength and fighting spirit. Doprillus love to battle, especially by grappling, and are eager to start brawls. On neutral ground, a doprillu offers to duel the strongest-looking opponent, but when a doprillu's home turf is invaded, no rules apply to the confrontation. As befits the superheated blood that fuels them, doprillus make their homes in warm locations: hot jungles, sunny deserts, and underground caverns near sulfur vents.
625|Adult Cloud Dragon|At heart, cloud dragons are wanderers, explorers, and travelers who enjoy nothing more than seeing new lands and meeting unusual creatures. Cloud dragons range in color from light blue to a pale, milky white and have thick, curling horns and rather short snouts. They keep lairs among the extreme altitudes of the highest mountain peaks but are away on their many journeys as often as they're at home. Cloud dragons spend long hours surveying the lands they fly over from great heights, but they are creatures of whim, making it hard to predict what will pique their curiosity and bring them winging down to converse or investigate something on the ground. Cloud dragons seldom perform acts of outright malice, but they are not often charitable either. A cloud dragon is as likely to simply pluck something they desire off the ground and fly away with it as they are to bargain fairly.
864|Worm That Walks|This worm that walks was a cultist of the Great Old One 
879|Urdefhan Dominator|Urdefhan dominators control the minds of others to glean useful secrets and gain an advantage against their enemies.
1002|Ravenile|Raveniles are rare mutant 
1006|Shatterling|Shatterlings have a fixation on mirrors that gives them a strange affinity for reflective surfaces. These creeping, wicked fey stand barely 3 feet high and look like hunched humanoids made of shifting panes of jagged mirror glass. Shatterlings usually inhabit areas with plenty of mirrors, like carnival fun houses, opulent manors, or playhouses. Capricious and malevolent, shatterlings quickly kill or scare away anyone else in such areas, as they desire to be the only ones to gaze into the mirrors they claim as their own.
1072|Nikaramsa|Lies, knowledge, and deception are a nikaramsa's stock and trade. They are outstanding scholars, with deep and nuanced understanding of religion, philosophy, astrology, and similar subjects. They take particular delight in exploiting the greed and hubris of gullible worshippers, using them to desecrate and destroy their own faith. Even in their goal of undermining the holy, nikaramsas' twisted humor knows few bounds, and they prefer to take on the guise of divine messengers with boons to share. Once they find a likely victim or set of victims, they use their vast knowledge of religion to impart contradictory wisdom, leading to the eventual implosion of the faith from heresies of the clergy and congregation themselves.
1138|Dramofir|Beings of inscrutable intent and incredible power, dramofirs hail from the 
1169|Plague Giant|Plague giants are rasping behemoths, whose weeping sores, fetid breath, and filthy fingernails all bear a terrible wasting disease. Like sewer rats or flies that swarm a fresh battlefield, plague giants bear an inborn pathogen that does little harm to the giants themselves (their wretched physical appearances are purely superficial) but can wreak devastation on afflicted victims.
1226|Mezlan|The bizarre shapeshifters known as mezlans were created ages ago as spies and infiltrators by a long-forgotten ritual infusing a magically constructed ooze with the soul of an exceptional sapient being. Having long since outlasted their creators, mezlans most often dwell alone amongst the ruins of the ancient civilizations they served as mortals.
1248|Nightmarchers|While smooth roads remain a traveler's blessing, walking them after sunset risks nightmarcher attack. The ringing of conch shells and beating of drums herald the coming of these spirits as they walk the royal highways, unfettered by walls or barriers. Nightmarchers react violently to those in their path. If a bystander is fortunate, an ancestor's spirit might call out to spare them. Those who refuse to show proper deference might be reduced to little more than ash on the wind come sunrise.
1295|Triumph Siktempora|Triumph siktemporas embody the emotional satisfaction of overcoming a task that took up much of a creature's mind, be it taking an apple seed from between one's teeth or winning a war. They exult in every victory they attain; however, they value only those successes won fairly not only abiding by the established rules of a competition but also enforcing those rules mercilessly upon other competitors.
1309|Sorcerous Skull Swarm|The act of creating a 
1402|Angoyang|Angoyangs resemble white cats with black stripes like those of a tiger. They have beautifully silken fur, piercing blue eyes, and long fluffy tails. Yet, far from the picturesque feline companions they appear to be, angoyangs are actually terrifying beasts capable of peeling back the fleshy layers of their face to reveal a mass of long, toothed tentacles.
1441|Sié Goluo|Sié Goluo, sometimes referred to simply as Grandfather, is an ancient spirit that has kept watch over the peoples of the Mwangi Expanse for generations. Most believe he first appeared during the Age of Darkness to protect the Mwangi people from the worst dangers of the everlasting night. Bekyar storytellers claim he is older still, from a time before the first people walked Golarion. This immortal spirit has incarnated into multiple forms over millennia. In the oldest surviving tales, they say Sié Goluo looked like an ordinary—if oversized—ox, save for his nearly human-looking eyes. Most recently, people say he has the appearance of several different animals, but accounts vary on which animals make up his form.
1456|Old Man Statue|This creature did not include a description.
1458|Mammoth Turtle|This creature did not include a description.
1459|Tyrannosaurus Imperator|This creature did not include a description.
1461|Watchtower Poltergeist|This creature did not include a description.
1570|King Harral|This creature did not include a description.
1573|Falrok|This creature did not include a description.
1644|Chakanaj|Featureless, tiny bat-like flaps of pale skin with retractable, squirming legs, chakanajes prey upon people's shame and fears of disclosing humiliating secrets. Extremely diminutive and stealthy, they can slip into buildings or lurk under eaves with ease, making it easier to spy on others and learn their secrets. Chakanajes enjoy ferreting out secrets and tormenting their victims by leaving incriminating hints of the truth in places others might find them, or even messages threatening the victim that someone “knows the truth.” Fear of exposure can drive victims to commit atrocities, which a chakanaj uses to further exacerbate the victim's shame and fear, to the sahkil's ever-increasing enjoyment.
1675|Ancient Rivener|Ikeshtis who eschew their society are exiled and quickly devolve into violent creatures known as riveners.
1721|Ainamuuren|Like all saumen kar, Ainamuuren is a large, muscular humanoid with large horns atop his head. Thick, white fur covers everywhere except his face, hands, and feet, which reveal darker skin beneath the fur, covered in an intricate pattern of stylized runes. Unlike other saumen kar, Ainamuuren possess not two but four long, curving horns, jutting from his head like a primal crown. The large, magical greataxe he carries bears intricate, stylized runic patterns that greatly resemble those carved upon his flesh, with the same sharp focus on angular lines and triangular shapes.
1852|Death Coach|Roads are liminal spaces, existing to connect people and places but rarely destinations in and of themselves. Some see them as avenues to profit. Roadside inns can be lucrative businesses between metropolitan areas, and even villains such as bandits can earn a living plying their larcenous trade on various highways. Occasionally, a road will gain a dire reputation from banditry, treacherous terrain, or a history of deadly accidents. Despite this notoriety, such roads often remain in use simply because they are an important artery of travel or alternative routes prove impractical. On such roads, those stained with the blood of travelers or flooded with fear and anger, do death coaches ride.
2557|Fate's Prophet|This creature did not include a description.
2558|Demongate Colossus|This creature did not include a description.
2598|The Bloodstorm|A hundred thousand leeches, mosquitos, and parasites form a roiling mass of hunger and malice. It moves like a storm through the tunnels and caverns of the Emperor's Peak, constantly in search of its next meal. Though it has many bodies, it has just one, startlingly clever mind. The flames and smoke of the cities keeps it at bay, but in the darkness, it is at home. The 
2631|Brass Bastion|Brass bastions are formidable sentinels crafted from elemental fire and extraplanar brass. While they can be shaped into many forms, most depict muscular warriors with curving horns and stern or taunting expressions. Within each brass shell is a raging inferno—the source of its ceaseless heat. Though ifrits originally created brass bastions to act as servants and guards, the knowledge of how to craft them has spread throughout the 
2817|Tabellia (Emissary Angel)|Tabellias are the elite messengers of the celestial realms, serving deities and celestial armies by delivering messages, performing reconnaissance, and providing support for those in need of aid. They watch over planar travelers and take powerful mortals under their wings to mentor them. Tabellias carry scrolls containing important messages and other celestial secrets. Most creatures, even wicked ones, respect the strength of tabellias and allow them to travel untroubled.
2910|Gylou (Handmaiden Devil)|Though gylous are deeply entrenched in the expansive and complex machinations of 
3123|Caldera Oni|As hot-blooded as the lava that floods their homes, caldera oni have an incredible appetite for the thrill of war. While they engage in battle to conquer and control others, fire oni also love the thrill of combat, fighting for the sheer joy of it. Presenting a caldera oni with a true challenge can potentially earn their mercy and an offer to serve at their side.
3311|Guardian Guide|Guardian guides take any size or shape, from quiet mouse spirits that protect families from pestilence and locusts to mighty sunscale serpents who embody the watchful wrath of the sun itself.
3359|Scarhorn|Recall Knowledge - Dragon
2343|Mastiff Of Tindalos|This creature did not include a description.
2347|Kargstaad's Giant|This creature did not include a description.
2358|Ghostly Guard|This creature did not include a description.
2365|Necrohulk Smasher|Mutants with incredible strength make the most powerful necrohulks. These necrohulk smashers are so swollen with biological and alchemical muscle enhancements that they can simply pound their way through enemies.
2404|Clockwork Cannoneer|Clockwork cannoneers are cannon-armed constructs created to defend the Grand Duchy of Alkenstar. The people of Alkenstar typically find conventional arms sufficient for battling creatures who wander out of the Mana Wastes, but recent increases in activity from the fleshforges of Nex and the necromantic chambers of Geb have spurred the people of the city into a flurry of defensive innovations. Created by an experimental collaboration between the city's gunsmiths and clockwork inventors, the clockwork cannoneer provides exceptional mobile firepower. Two cannon-arms swing at the sides of the 15-foot-tall automaton, and its body contains a hopper of cannonballs that are replenished by engineers when the creature is wound up for duty. Triple-walled reinforcement on the cannoneer's black-powder reservoirs provides ample protection from the accidental explosions and backfires that often troubled early prototypes of the finely engineered machine. The current design combines the long-range capabilities of field artillery with the stopping power of a firedrake against engaged enemies, and its heat-tempered gear assembly minimizes warping that might cause slipping, grinding, or shaking.
2430|Ectoplasmic Amalgam|This creature did not include a description.
1872|Hollow Serpent|A hollow serpent is the dried and shriveled husk of an enormous constrictor snake, animated by fell magic to serve its masters. According to the oldest holy books of 
2125|Helg Eats-The-Eaters|A crafty 
2127|Zashathal Head-Taker|The most devout and fervent subcommander in the 
2132|Shraen Graveknight|This creature did not include a description.
2160|Hyrune Loxenna, Blood Lord Of Geb|Hyrune had been a 
2213|Wild Hunt Horse|These steeds stand upon puffs of air, their grassy manes and tails swishing majestically in the wind. When they are not participating in a hunt, wild hunt horses enjoy constructing complicated courses through land and sky and racing each other for ever-changing stakes.
141|Ancient White Dragon|The most feral and least intelligent of all the chromatic dragons, white dragons are brutish, predatory, and chiefly motivated by self-preservation. Nearly all other dragons look down on white dragons as hopelessly hotheaded and dull, though this does not make them any less dangerous—in fact, it may mean the opposite. It’s nearly impossible to treat with white dragons, not because they lack the capacity to do so, but because they just don’t care to. They are as difficult to deal with as they are quick to anger, and they become incensed at almost anything. When a white dragon does speak, it spews threats, inane jokes, and incoherent babbling as a prelude to attacking—and when the attack comes, it’s bloody and relentless.
283|Demilich|Demiliches are formed when a lich, through carelessness or by accident, loses its soul cage. As years pass, the lich's body crumbles to dust, leaving only the skull as the seat of its necromantic power. The lich enters a sort of torpor, its mind left wandering the planes in search of ever greater mysteries. The lich gradually loses the ability to cast spells and its magic items slowly subsume into its new form. Negative energy concentrates around the skull, causing some of its bones and teeth to petrify with power and turn into blight crystals. The resulting lich skull, embedded with arcane gemstones and suffused with palpably powerful magic, forms a creature called a demilich.
408|Wemmuth|Fertilized by large quantities of spilled blood, such as that found on bloodstained battlefields or in the war-torn regions surrounding besieged cities, wemmuths are vile swaths of vines that draw sustenance from mortal suffering, lapping up blood like water. Possessing a rudimentary intelligence and an unquenchable thirst for blood, wemmuths lie in wait for most of their lives, growing to incredible size in the bloody soil of their grisly homes. Though the vines that comprise a wemmuth’s body are scarcely thicker than rope, a single adult wemmuth system consists of 6 tons of vines, enough to stretch for 6,000 feet if stretched from end to end in a single straight line. Wemmuths never orient themselves this way, however, instead preferring to wrap themselves into massive mounds approximately 15 feet across and equally thick. Although wemmuths are often spotted lazing about, the scent of blood is enough to whip one into a violent frenzy. The creature condenses its entire mass into a sphere of sharp thorns and lashing vines, resembling a hateful tumbleweed the size of an elephant. Wemmuths commonly dig up massive boulders or entire trees from the ground and incorporate them into their rolling mass, using these objects to bolster their defense against many forms of attack or hurling them at faraway foes with terrifying precision.
475|Soulbound Ruin|Those who tread in ruined places sometimes speak of a sense that a supernatural presence is there alongside them, as if the spirits of the dead were watching intently. Such presences can be very real, often taking the form of ghosts or other shades of undead that cannot let go of their attachment to the Material Plane. But sometimes, instead of manifesting as distinct spirits, the souls of the dead infuse the very stone and mortar around them. When enough souls attach themselves to a single place—be it a home, crypt, or castle—it can take on a life of its own, becoming a soulbound ruin.
483|Immortal Ichor|An immortal ichor is an intelligent mass of blood from a dead evil deity. The cultists who perform the ritual to create immortal ichor typically seal up the sentient ooze in an underground or remote chamber that blocks its magical abilities, but over time these seals break or weaken, freeing the unholy monster.
538|Marut|A marut is tasked with hunting mortals who cheat death by artificially extending their lifespans. This includes those who seek undeath, such as liches and vampires, but also includes those who use powerful magic to cling to their youth, use divination to discover and avoid an appointed death, or call too often on the power of resurrection. Once the marut has selected its target, the inevitable pursues its quarry without surcease or deviation until either it or the target is dead.
720|Shoal Linnorm|Shoal linnorms occupy rocky shoreline shallows and slither along lonely coastlines. While they do not intentionally seek out large settlements, these linnorms nonetheless beleaguer fishers headed out from small coastal towns, and they may even follow skiffs back to their home port to appraise the town's defenses and plan a raid. Shoal linnorms tend to hunt large prey, both underwater and on land. Their preferred quarries includes giant squid and grizzly bears—meals rich in fat, which the linnorms metabolize into the fiery steam that courses through their veins.
728|Marrmora|On the 
739|Neothelid|This gigantic, mauve worm has a hooked mouth with multiple circular bands of teeth and four barbed tongues. A wielder of terrible occult powers and a vast alien intellect, the neothelid serves the ageless horrors that dwell in strange dimensions beyond known reality—the Outer Gods and Great Old Ones of the Elder Mythos. Neothelids pass down these mysteries to the eerie wormlike creatures they spawn and create in preparation for a future where the worms below shall rule—a time when all other life is nothing more than food.
834|Jotund Troll|Jotund trolls are gigantic, nine-headed horrors who prowl frigid moors, marshes, and wastelands, always alone and always enraged. While each of the jotund troll's nine heads possess their own brains and senses, they work much more in tandem than the dual-minded nature of the two-headed troll. Despite this, the heads often argue and bicker, particularly over which head gets to eat. The fact that all nine maws lead to the same shared stomach makes little difference in such culinary disagreements.
839|Umonlee|Those who dwell in the coldest climates of Golarion tell of a brutal beast that swims through the ice and snow and can devastate entire villages in minutes. Ancient Erutaki who made their homes in the frozen polar expanse called the Crown of the World named this monster the umonlee.
1007|The Stabbing Beast|The Stabbing Beast, the divine representative of 
1019|Hegessik|Anchorites of the proteans, hegessiks live solitary lives roaming the dangerous wilds of the 
1132|Adult Sovereign Dragon|The most well-known of imperial dragons due to their deep involvement with mortals, the sovereign dragons' name comes from their mandate of selecting rulers—but at some point, the dragons themselves joined the list of worthy candidates. Other imperial dragons suspect the sovereign dragons offered their connection to the elemental cycle to attain forbidden magic, evidenced by their lack of any vulnerability to wood or ability to feed on fire, despite being creatures of the earth.
1246|Nemhaith|This undead guardian stands amid a whirling swarm of shackled spirits that rage against their fate. Bound by a profane necromantic ritual, a nemhaith and its servitors maintain watch over an object or place so important they embraced undeath to guard it. This ritual binds connected beings—friends, family, fellow worshippers, or even sacrificed innocents—to form a single nemhaith. 
1251|Lampad Queen|Lampad queens are capricious monarchs and protectors of vast underground domains, regarded in ballads and tales as allies and foes, monsters and muses. Lampad queens have a particular animosity for the many predominantly evil underground ancestries, such as 
1267|Popobawa|Cruel shapechangers, popobawas feed on negative emotions, particularly fear, despair, and anguish. Though they're dangerously strong carnivores that drink the blood of their victims, their greatest pleasure lies in mesmerizing victims to cause suffering and spread chaos. A popobawa moves about populated areas in disguise, seeking new victims and revisiting past victims to bask in their suffering, spreading gossip and incriminating innocents for its crimes while still relishing its own loathsome infamy.
1343|Tolokand|Streams run dry. The earth cracks. Green leaves brown and shatter. And the creature walks on.
1417|Sanzuwu|Those who feast on the sun are said to carry its power within them. Sanzuwus are small crows with red plumage and dark throats. According to legend, they stole their burning power from the sun and now fly across the sky as blinding streaks of fire. When they land on the earth, it ignites around them, causing unbound destruction. A handful of people worship these radiant birds and inscribe their three-legged visage on coins, items, and weapons.
1457|Dread Roc|This creature did not include a description.
1460|Grave Spinosaurus|This creature did not include a description.
1462|Watchtower Shadow|This creature did not include a description.
1465|Jaiban|This creature did not include a description.
1664|Graveknight Champion|Once the servant of a deity, the graveknight champion returned as an undead after a life cut short in service to their god.
1665|Kilia Mwibo|Beautiful and dangerous, kilia mwibos appear as lush, green trees with brightly colored and appealing fleshy seedpods that remain attached year round. Over time, these seedpods become hollow and create an eerie, forlorn wail that generates feelings of sadness and despair.
1668|Contemplative Meditant|Contemplative meditants focus their meditations and research on the vexing topic of time itself.
1737|Somnalu|With its lithe, sinuous body and a flexible, twisting spine, Somnalu bears a resemblance to a giant lizard, save for its striking visage. Spiny frills run down the creature's mottled black back, interlaced with dull red stripes that streak from head to tail. Its two sets of forelimbs are bound to each other by small webs of skin. Its distinctive face lacks any visible mouth, nose, or ears, instead possessing only a huge red eye surrounded by six smaller, secondary eyes.
1849|Sykever (Nightwalker)|The most common darvakkas are sykevers, walkers in the night. Bloodthirsty but calculating, they lead legions of dead into battle on the Material Plane, working toward the simple goal of ending all life.
2568|Voricose|This creature did not include a description.
2599|Grand Defender|Hand-carved by the Father of Creation himself and strengthened by the souls of history's most heroic dwarves, the Grand Defender serves as 
3137|Phoenix|The phoenix is a primordial bird made of heat and flame that dwells in the most inhospitable regions of the desert. Though highly intelligent and usually brimming with compassion, phoenixes are best known for their iconic ability to resurrect themselves when slain, emerging reborn from the ashes of their own corpses. Phoenixes are often sought out for their knowledge of healing abilities, as they cannot abide the sight of suffering and deny their succor only to the most foul and irredeemable of creatures.
3303|Rumindrol|The elusive rumindrol, an apex predator of the Darklands, lives deep below the surface of Golarion. Capable of emitting siren-like calls that reverberate far and wide through the tunnel systems surrounding its lair, a rumindrol feasts on the giant subterranean worms drawn to its call—as well as 
2323|Kob Moleg|This creature did not include a description.
2326|The Gardener|This creature did not include a description.
2333|Gedovius|This creature did not include a description.
2337|Korog|This creature did not include a description.
2338|Thresholder Hermeticist|This creature did not include a description.
2351|Storm-Struck Arboreal|This creature did not include a description.
2363|Facetbound Cascader|Facetbound cascaders must have been arcane spellcasters in life; in undeath, they draw upon the power of embedded 
1855|Ecorche|When a necromancer has need of a versatile agent to serve as a bodyguard and do their bidding in disguise, they build an ecorche—a skinless monstrosity filled with putrid alchemical agents, covered in pulsing muscle and sinew grafts, and imbued with razor-sharp claws. The ecorche uses its claws to flay its victims, stripping off skin in seconds. It can then horrifyingly squeeze itself into the stolen skin and impersonate the deceased, which it does to covertly carry out orders or find more victims to expand its collection. If its deception is uncovered, it shreds its disguise, bursting forth in terrible skinless form.
1945|Lorthact|Once, Lorthact was a darling of the powers of 
2121|The Vanish Man|This creature did not include a description.
2135|Qormintur|As the seneschal of the influential 
144|Ancient Brass Dragon|Brass dragons are whimsical tricksters who delight in humor and play. They particularly enjoy conversations with humans and other civilized humanoids, delighting in the naive customs of these diminutive races without showing them haughtiness or scorn. While they may seem merely curious, brass dragons engage in this sort of conversation with the goal of keeping up to date on regional politics so they can anticipate future conflicts. Along the way, they create extensive information networks that begin with their own allies but stretch across all levels of humanoid society—networks which the brass dragon then uses to subtly assist settlements near their lair. Unlike the schemes and manipulations of blue dragons, brass dragons use their informant networks to establish justice and equality.
477|Spiritbound Aluum|Whereas most aluums are animated by the souls of volunteers loyal to Katapesh, the Pactmasters created a handful of more capable (and deadly) aluums powered by the souls of a dozen or more dangerous criminals. These spiritbound aluums are rarely used as peacekeepers, instead serving as assassins, elite bodyguards, or riot control during times of martial law.
611|Cornugon (Horned Devil)|Hell's
629|Ancient Crystal Dragon|Good-natured but vain, crystal dragons are beautiful creatures with brilliant hides made of multicolored crystal and gemstone. Their beauty is a source of great pride but is also something of a weakness, as crystal dragons are easily angered by insults about their appearance. Despite their relatively benign natures when compared to other true dragons, crystal dragons can be short tempered and prone to finding insults where none were intended. Although their opinions are changeable, crystal dragons prefer orderly environments and are not fond of sudden interruptions or distractions.
721|Fjord Linnorm|Fjord linnorms make their homes in damp caves behind ice-cold waterfalls in the river-veined coastal reaches of the north. While they may appear graceful as they swim up the fjords for which they're named, they are as vile as any other of their species and take pleasures in capsizing river boats before gobbling up their terrified crews.
871|Zomok|Mighty plant-dragons, zomoks prowl the woodlands, defending their homes from destructive forces while healing and restoring the woods following natural disasters and ravaging intruders. Zomoks vary in appearance with the seasons, growing verdant green in the spring and summer, changing to autumnal colors in the fall, and decaying to brown in winter. While zomoks can and often do swallow their foes, they have no real need to eat. Any creature they gulp down is typically left behind as a mangled corpse the next time the zomok travels via their Forest Step ability. Zomoks reach 35 to 40 feet in length and weigh 30 tons.
977|Saurian Warmonger|These saurians adopt warfare as their primary role and greatest calling. They particularly excel at taking slaves.
1009|Elemental Vessel, Water|Spellcasters create elemental vessels by harvesting raw elemental energy and then binding it within a specially enchanted magic circle to grant it life.
1098|Clockwork Dragon|Clockwork dragons are a marvel of clockwork design. These powerful masterpieces have the ability to fly, making them versatile and dangerous killers. A clockwork dragon's winding mechanism is more efficient than those of other clockworks, allowing it to partially reuse energy generated by flapping its wings. Creating a clockwork dragon requires not only an advanced understanding of clockwork design, but also a greater cache of rare resources, as its body requires solid reinforcement. As a result, most clockwork dragons have adamantine fortification. Creating a clockwork dragon without adamantine is entirely possible, though such dragons are typically smaller and more fragile.
1175|Mithral Golem|Mithral golems are gorgeously crafted, silvery humanoids made from colossal amounts of the purest 
1296|Love Siktempora|Acts of great and intense love spawn love siktemporas, kindly creatures bearing intense strength that start and end wars in the name of the love that birthed them. These adept combatants form crossbows and bolts out of their emotional bonds, though they typically fight only to protect that which they love. While unable to speak given their featureless faces, they're nevertheless compassionate listeners and savvy communicators.
1318|Elder Sphinx|Towering over their kin, elder sphinxes are the pharaonic masters of their kind. They crave solitude in eternal vigil over sacred spaces, where they honor ancient pacts.
1329|Sumbreiva|Sumbreivas are the 
1414|Inmyeonjo|Mountain guides whisper stories of giant white birds that stretch towards the sky, singing with human voices. While these stories are often dismissed as tall tales, the truth is much stranger, for the bird they've encountered not only has a human voice, but one a human face as well. Inmyeonjos are enormous white birds with flowing tails, abnormally long necks, and mask-like human faces. They wear an elongated black headpiece that serves as a vessel for their life energy, enabling their reincarnation through any living creature.
1433|Grootslang|While it's easy to mistake a grootslang for an elephant upon first glance, once the rest of its body becomes visible, the creature resembles a grotesque puppet manipulated like a marionette from the inside by a snake large enough to swallow a building. A grootslang stands 20 feet tall, with skin like plated armor and a pair of massive forearms. It sports six deadly tusks capable of piercing flesh and bone with ease. The rest of its body extends up to 60 feet long. A grootslang's face resembles that of an elephant, but much like its serpentine cousins, it can unhinge its lower jaw to swallow its prey.
1464|Tamikan|This creature did not include a description.
1511|Melodic Squalls |This creature did not include a description.
1577|Veshumirix|Veshumirix is capable of patience and farsighted behavior, but he is also prone to outbursts of cruelty and destruction. His ego is surprisingly fragile for a dragon of his strength, and he has no tolerance for the failures of his underlings.
1727|Grogrisant|Grogrisant is an enormous lion with multiple eyes and a golden, glowing mane. As it was originally slain by Taldor's founding emperor, the legendary hero Taldaris, Grogrisant's appearance marks both danger for the people of Taldor and the potential for Taldans to prove their might against a creature from their fabled past. How it continues to appear time and time again remains a mystery, one that Taldan scholars continuously attempt to decipher.
1796|Crawling Slurry|Acid damage can scar stone and reduce flesh to pitted chunks, but some organic compounds are resistant to acid and respond by combining into a mass of roiling, living slurry. These scarred clumps hunger to consume anything they can sense. They move with quick, darting contractions that surprise those used to facing slow-moving oozes.
1804|Thorn Guardian|This creature did not include a description.
2526|Wrath Riot|Wrath demons
2529|Ephialtes|Ephialtes velstracs are consummate and fearless hunters of the doomed and the damned.
2569|Ticktock|This creature did not include a description.
2589|Svarýr Soldier|This creature did not include a description.
2703|Glacial Worm|Cave worm eggs that lie dormant for a long period may experience significant climactic shift. If the temperature falls below freezing, the worms may hatch as glacial worms, also called white worms. These creatures immediately migrate as far north as possible, seeking the glaciers or icebergs that will nourish and house them. Glacial worms lack stingers, as liquid venom is less effective in cold temperatures. Occasionally, such creatures are carried far south on icebergs that have carved off the main ice sheets of the polar regions.
2836|Giylea (Wheel Archon)|Giyleas are known as wheel archons, named for their appearance as a flying, armor-plated wheel of fire with eyes on each spoke. They often serve as advisors due to their ability to see through lies, and they have a legendary intolerance and single-mindedness in the pursuit of the punishment of evil.
2894|Astradaemon (Void Daemon)|These unnerving daemons represent death by direct assault against a soul or life-force. Rarely seen in the mortal 
2900|Shemhazian (Mutilation Demon)|Shemhazians rise from the souls of torturers and those who reveled in mutilating the physical bodies of their victims. Standing 35 feet tall, a shemhazian is well equipped with a wide range of claws, pincers, and fangs to continue inflicting such torments on those they encounter.
3017|Rune Giant|Rune giants are tyrants among their own kind, given power to command and magically control other giants. They once served even more powerful masters—potent wizards known as runelords—and in so doing, commanded entire armies of giants in service to the runelords' empires. In the eons since these empires collapsed, rune giants have persisted, though to the outside world they're little more than fabled horrors. Rune giants usually dwell in the most remote and rugged of towering mountain ranges, but they can also be found in immense ruins atop lost islands, glacial valleys, or even more remote or magical regions.
3295|Prismhydra|Prismhydras, yet another inexplicable byproduct of the Mana Wastes' tumultuous magical properties, wander the land between Nex and Geb feasting on megafauna, mutants, and whatever else happens to cross their path. Their scales cascade in various colors, shifting in beautiful patterns that belie the threat of their powerful jaws. Only the most prepared adventurers can slay a prismhydra, for the means of stopping its regeneration is like a single card in an explosive deck
2348|Bloomborn Athach|This creature did not include a description.
2368|Ankou Assassin|This creature did not include a description.
2417|Ghiasi The Unraveler, Smuggler Turned Diva|Ghiasi loves secrets. She loves gathering them like treasures, even if she doesn't plan to use them. She enjoys plots within plots and stories of master manipulators overcoming dangerous odds with words and influence instead of muscle. She sees herself as central to social life in Yled and loves the way 
2420|Mummy, Drowned|Rarely artificially created, drowned mummies are miserable, dripping undead that have adapted to exist in an aquatic environment, usually over centuries, after their tomb or lair becomes flooded.
2138|Kimilekki|This creature did not include a description.
103|Marilith (Pride Demon)|Mariliths are the generals of the Abyss, formed from the souls of proud evil mortals, often warlords and despots. They appear as tall and powerfully built humans from the waist up with snake tails and six arms. Because of Lamashtu’s prominence over other demonic deities, most pride demons encountered by mortals take female form, but they can be of any gender.
135|Ancient Green Dragon|Green dragons are the most contemplative of the chromatic dragons as well as the most approachable. The key to understanding green dragons is to understand their obsession with knowledge and self-discipline. Any careful approach that takes advantage of a green dragon’s fixations may end in a diplomatic outcome, but any misstep or slight can provoke a savage attack. Like most chromatic dragons, green dragons do not suffer fools—and the threshold for what they consider foolish is very low.
150|Ancient Copper Dragon|Capricious and always eager to share a good laugh, copper dragons are among the wiliest of the metallic dragons, but this by no means interferes with their mission to spread freedom in oppressive lands. Copper dragons are hedonists who are quick to indulge in simple pleasures, but they’re also sympathetic to other creatures, slow to pass judgment, and careful to always examine a situation from as many perspectives as possible. This philosophy has its drawbacks, however, as copper dragons are susceptible to negative influences and prone to forgiving the less serious evil acts performed by their chromatic cousins and other cruel creatures. Copper dragons also have a difficult time keeping their temper in check once they are roused to anger.
487|Xotanispawn|Xotanispawn are monstrous versions of scavenging beetle larvae that have been corrupted and mutated by feeding on the remains of Xotani the Firebleeder, a slain Spawn of Rovagug buried beneath Pale Mountain in Katapesh. These creatures look vaguely like the minute insects they once were, with a sclerotized head and chitinous body plates, six legs, and numerous dorsal spines lining the joints and edges of each segment. However, by feeding on the unholy remains of Xotani, the spawn have manifested many of the traits of the infamous Firebleeder, most notably a blisteringly hot internal temperature and powerful fire attacks—to say nothing of their monstrous size.
532|Qurashith|Qurashith—or “gluttonwings” in the Common tongue—are fearsome, bat-like predators that haunt the upper reaches of Gluttondark’s cavern-worlds. These monstrosities are no mere beasts. A qurashith does not simply devour its victims; once it kills its prey, it physically subsumes the creature into its own body, metabolizing the prey’s spiritual essence. Close inspection of a qurashith reveals that its body is an amalgamation of the fiend and its extraplanar and mortal victims, bound together by webs of demonic scar tissue and sticky acidic pus. While the individual personalities of a qurashith’s victims gradually metabolize and diffuse into its very substance over time, a particularly charismatic or magically powerful victim might exert some influence over the qurashith’s mind for a short time.
623|Ancient Brine Dragon|Brine dragons are usually blue-green in color, with shiny scales, crests that help them glide through the water, and sweeping neck frills. They care little for either good or evil. As they are both opinionated and willing to impose their sense of order on others, many brine dragons eventually seek to rule over a meticulously crafted community. These communities are orderly and well-planned, with rigid standards of courtesy and unchanging laws set down by the dragon themself. A settlement seeded by a brine dragon can be made of members of almost any ancestry, but the most common inhabitants are humans, merfolk, tengus, or sahuagin.
780|Radiant Warden|The enigmatic and strange radiant wardens were constructed thousands of years ago to protect observatories and scholars against the incursion of alien aggressors from the Dominion of the Black. Over time, their roles as guardians expanded to include watching over any region where the laws of time and space have worn thin, particularly near portals and permanent gates between planets, planes, or dimensions.
824|Thrasfyr|As bizarre in appearance as they are ferocious, thrasfyrs resemble six-limbed bears with bull-like horns, draconic scales, and a fire-breathing serpent for a tail. Every thrasfyr is wrapped in animated chains psychically linked to the creature's mind.
846|Vaspercham|The darkly intelligent vaspercham, an aquatic horror who delights in violence and destruction, lurks in the shallows near shorelines. Once a vaspercham settles on a new home, they stubbornly stay there, regardless of any communities dwelling nearby. A vaspercham's physical might and magic-warping abilities make them incredibly hard to dislodge once entrenched, and many seaside communities have relocated after a vaspercham came calling. The monster responds only to strength, so one must best a vaspercham in combat to gain their begrudging cooperation. But once the creature recovers their strength, they inevitably betray any temporary alliance.
1116|Deimavigga (Apostate Devil)|As masters of cold, calculated logic and perfectly timed proselytization, the loathsome deimaviggas seek to set friend against friend and turn the faithful from their beliefs at every opportunity.
1127|Ancient Sea Dragon|Sea dragons' affinity with water grants them mastery over rain, storms, and floods. Those whose livelihoods are at the mercy of the weather and waves frequently venerate these great aquatic creatures. Most sea dragons respond kindly to requests, but, like the sea, they can be unpredictable and fickle.
1284|Ximtal|The struggles of loneliness and the anxiety that accompanies that feeling plague many creatures, and ximtals delight in exploiting this fear for their own perverse gain. Appearing as hybrids of rats and crabs with grasping tentacles, these scheming fiends manipulate their victims over long spans of time, like pakalchis, to savor the most fear they can. Ximtals use subtlety to entrap their prey and often don't directly engage their targets. They use insecurities as a tool and force poor behavior in mortals they set their sights on. They prefer to focus their machinations on strong-willed and well-intentioned mortals, hoping to erode their pride and self-worth and ultimately lead them eschew altruistic efforts.
1413|Gumiho|Gumihos are legendary nine-tailed fox creatures who, when disguised in humanoid form, use charm and guile to lure prey deep into the forest before revealing their true form and striking. The green-eyed canids use brutally sharp fangs to tear out their victim's throat and feast on their liver. Those few who survive a gumiho's trap recall the canid's eerie green eyes as well as a strange marble amulet warn around the monster's neck.
1438|Maliadi|A maliadi resembles a massive hippopotamus surrounded by a collar of flame. Maliadis are arrogant and tyrannical, and demand tribute from everyone they encounter—whether lone travelers or entire villages—to avert destruction. Many pay them off, for maliadis can hurl parts of their flaming collars to form geysers of flame or fiery walls, and they're also powerful shapeshifters.
1679|Shobhad Sniper|Enemies rarely see a shobhad sniper before the deadly blast of their powerful rifles snatches away the offender's life. Selected from among the most talented enforcers after proving themselves in combat, shobhad snipers learn how to cross the desert sands undetected, combine their powerful ranged weapons with close-combat techniques, and survive Akiton's freezing nights for weeks on end while scouting potential settlements or enemy strongholds.
1707|Avatar Of Walkena|This creature did not include a description.
1716|Dwandek|This creature did not include a description.
1722|Cuetzmonquali |Though stories call it the Burning Dragon, Cuetzmonquali is a unique creature with no draconic heritage.
1801|Wereant Poisoner|When overwhelming force is inadvisable, a wereant hive sends a poison-dripping assassin for murderous work. These poisoners love to terrify those dying in agony from their toxins.
1802|Lignified Adamantine Golem|This creature did not include a description.
2570|Blood-Pear Tree|This creature did not include a description.
2572|Morgaran|This creature did not include a description.
2578|Phasmadaemon (Terror Daemon)|Known also as terror daemons, the horrifying phasmadaemons make use of illusions and their own frightening appearance (that of a serpent with a bony tail, a horned crocodilian skull for a head, and several insectile pincers) to strike fear into the hearts of others. They represent deaths brought about by fright.
2581|Fabled Harrowkin|The most powerful harrowkin are living embodiments of harrow cards.
2585|Mighty Bul-Gae|This creature did not include a description.
2641|Capritellix|The 
2723|Shinigami|Even immortals such as 
2844|Bandersnatch|Bandersnatches are great six-legged cats with wicked quills running down the length of their bodies down to the tips of their mighty tails. As with other legendary creatures from the 
2845|Banshee|Banshees are the furious, tormented souls of those bound to the world by a betrayal that defined the final hours of their lives. Some banshees arise from those who were slain by trusted friends and allies, or whose loved ones betrayed them on their deathbeds. Others spawn from those whose treacherous deeds shortly before their deaths left a stain upon their souls. Regardless of their origin, banshees despise the living. This hatred of life is all too often a horrific inversion of their personalities in life. Some speculate that the more kind-hearted the person (and the more wrenching the betrayal), the crueler the banshee.
2949|Ancient Horned Dragon|The magic that flows through primal dragons can manifest more animalistic or bestial features in a given type of dragon. Notably among these are the massive paired horns of the horned dragon. While their bulky frames, natural coloration, and prominent ridged scales are all remarkable in their own way, it's the horns that are most obvious and striking at first glance. Horned dragons use their horns to impale their prey in a quick and brutal display of their might. They are generally contemplative and have a fixation on knowledge and self-discipline, traits belied by their bestial appearance. As a result, horned dragons are generally more open to speaking with outsiders.
3084|Ice Linnorm|The ice linnorm dwells amid glacial crevasses, atop wind-blasted mountain peaks, or within glittering caverns carved from the hearts of the mightiest of icebergs.
3146|Keketar|The ruling caste of the proteans, keketars orchestrate attacks against the bastions of law and adjudicate protean disputes confidently and capriciously. A keketar resembles a shimmering, serpentine creature with spines, claws, and a dragon-like head. A keketar's actual appearance is in constant flux, but they generally stay about 18 feet long with a weight of around 1,500 pounds. While their physical forms can vary, two things remain constant: first, a keketar's eyes are always a piercing shade of amber or violet. Second, the keketar's mark of office—a crown of shifting symbols that hovers above their head—never changes. A keketar cannot remove their crown but can suppress it, although most are loath to do so and consider such an act one of cowardice or shame.
2342|Leng Envoy|This creature did not include a description.
2370|Barbtongued Wyvern|This creature did not include a description.
2407|Fleshforged Dreadnought|Created in the arcane fleshforges of Nex, this creature was spawned as the ultimate brute-force tool for urban assaults against the cities of Geb. At 30 feet tall, the dreadnought easily tops most city walls, and Nexian infantry forces would scramble up the spikes on the creature's back to penetrate defensive fortifications. Every detail of the creature's physiology was fashioned for the battlefield, from the ballista of bone and sinew integrated into its torso to the bulky ram on the crest of its head. The fleshforged's acidic blood not only serves an important hydraulic function but also deters city defenders who might attempt to strike down the creature.
2418|Pokmit Bloody-Pike, Unyielding Graveknight Of Yled|The graveknight now known as Pokmit Bloody-Pike was born in 4102 AR to a now-extinct minor line of Chelaxian nobility. While they didn't have much wealth, the family did have enough to outfit their young son as a soldier, and enough influence to land him a minor command posting. Pokmit's skill and force of personality made him an excellent leader, and he was a captain by the time the reckless prince Haliad I launched his ill-fated attack upon the city of Absalom. During the battle, he was knocked unconscious and left for dead by the retreating Chelaxians. Angered by this abandonment, he resigned his commission as soon as he recovered and vowed to never aid Cheliax again. Pokmit instead began a long career as a mercenary captain, mostly operating within the Mwangi Expanse.
2426|Soul Slime|Soul slimes are swirling, blue-gray masses of protoplasm that feed on the quintessence contained within souls. Typically, soul slimes acquire this quintessence by consuming the living, the 
2435|Vice-Chancellor Vikroti Stroh |This creature did not include a description.
2440|Ghiono|This creature did not include a description.
1906|Queen Sluagh|A queen sluagh grows more powerful by devouring souls collected from underlings or drained directly through her proboscis. The muscular tongue inside is tipped with a cartilaginous, barbed quill that feeds the queen not only the soul, but the strengths of its owner. A queen conceals her nest deep in a secluded area, such as a forest or graveyard.
2207|Fetch Stalker|Fetch stalkers form from the souls of Medium or Small 
2215|Wild Hunt Scout|These compact few have pointed ears, green eyes, and ram's horns. They relish the chance to seek revenge upon those who have wronged or insulted the wild hunt, but they tend to grow bored when the stakes aren't lethal.
2265|Tree That Weeps|This creature did not include a description.
132|Ancient Blue Dragon|Blue dragons are the sleek and poised cosmopolitans of the chromatic dragons. Their brand of evil is organized, manipulative, and regal. Blue dragons often lair near or within cities and set out to bend the population to their will and gather hordes of servants. These dragons love spinning webs of conspiracy. A blue dragon’s lackeys typically don’t even realize that they serve a dragon, but instead think the protection money, tariffs, or taxes they are amassing is treasure for a cruel but legitimate master. In some ways, blue dragons even see their servants as a living hoard and value them like treasure. These dragons have been known to use these tactics even with their own chromatic cousins.
147|Ancient Bronze Dragon|Bronze dragons are among the most common of metallic dragons and the most likely to ally with mortals on worthy quests. However, they are naturally scholarly creatures who would rather remain in their lairs studying esoteric lore than go off on a wild adventure. These aloof and stoic dragons also act as preservationists, guarding storehouses of ancient lore from destruction or perversion. Bronze dragons are principled and protective, but while their silver cousins are quick to crusade for justice, bronze dragons prefer to find an important location worthy of their protection and guard it against any attack or unwelcome intrusion.
368|Shoggoth|Although even raving fanatics and doom-saying prophets desperately claim the monstrous shoggoth is nothing more than a drug-induced vision or a thankfully unreal nightmare, the truth is altogether more dire. Shoggoths exist, yet they tend keep to the deepest of ocean trenches or the most remote of caverns and ruins, emerging to spread chaos and destruction in their slimy wakes.
370|Simurgh|Desert-dwelling people consider the sight of a simurgh a herald to a lifetime’s worth of luck, and those who are unfamiliar with the majestic beast might mistake it for the avatar of a deity. Beautiful, graceful, and truly gargantuan, the simurgh resembles nothing so much as a massive multicolored bird with the head of an equally enormous and regal lupine. Simurghs act as intermediaries in world-threatening conflicts, serving as agents of good deities or vigilantes who spread their own brand of justice, typically by obliterating or banishing evil extraplanar beings.
633|Ancient Magma Dragon|Magma dragons have a reputation among other dragons for being unpredictable and brash. Their temperament and tendency for violent outbursts ensure that the typical magma dragon lives a solitary life, with hatchlings often bickering or fighting to establish dominance among themselves before they leave the nest. A magma dragon always has a reason for their outbursts and can always justify their sudden turns in mood, yet they rarely feel the need to do so.
722|Cairn Linnorm|Cairn linnorms are disturbing, even by linnorm standards. They make their homes in necropolises, burial grounds, and the sites of immense and gory battles. Some point out that cairn linnorms feast on shambling undead and thus provide a service to the living, but these beasts are not choosy and will happily consume any creature, whether or not it draws breath.
810|Duneshaker Solifugid|The largest solifugids, duneshakers, are so immense that their movements make the terrain around them tremble. They can prey on creatures the size of mammoths or even larger.
872|Ammut|These chimeric, desert-dwelling fiends have massive bodies that are part hippopotamus, part large cat, and part crocodile. Though they devour souls for sustenance, ammuts are infamously picky eaters; most will only eat experienced adventurers or, for a special treat, particularly evil creatures, passing over common folk or those whose mettle has never been tested. 
874|Ararda|Shaitans
975|Deghuun (Children Of Mhar)|Mhar, an ancient evil deity of caverns, mountains, and volcanoes, belongs to the pantheon of the Great Old Ones—monstrous beings of alien intellect and unfathomable power. The so-called children of Mhar (known as deghuuns in the chaotic tongues of Mhar's enraptured cultists) physically resemble blue-gray octopods made of stone, mud, and molten iron. Venthole-like craters dot the surface of a deghuun's body, through which the creature can gaze out with a single golden eye that it can move from crater to crater.
976|Vavakia|Juggernauts of destruction, vavakias are formed from the souls of mortals who extract, enslave, or consume the souls of others.
978|Saurian Worldwatcher|The longest-lived saurians favor introspection and take the long view of things—though this thoughtfulness should not be mistaken for weakness. Other saurians defer to worldwatchers' experience.
1011|Minchgorm|An oddity even among the strange creatures of the 
1297|Hatred Siktempora|Spawned by acts and legacies of cold-blooded spite, hatred siktemporas kill indiscriminately out of pure loathing, methodically hunting down and slaughtering anyone who catches their vile attention. Fortunately for mortals, they typically limit their predations to the 
1517|Cloudsplitter|This creature did not include a description.
1518|Flying Mountain Kaminari|This creature did not include a description.
1580|Ishti|This creature did not include a description.
1586|Animated Dragonstorms|This creature did not include a description.
1587|Dragonstorm Fire Giant|This creature did not include a description.
1669|Contemplative Mentor|As they near the next phase of their journey through existence, contemplative mentors split their time between unlocking the highest secrets of time and space, and guiding their students and less-talented peers.
1717|Ravager Of Tindalos|This creature did not include a description.
1806|Shianshi Waymaker|This creature did not include a description.
1809|Cataclysm Beetle|This creature did not include a description.
1810|Red Queen|This creature did not include a description.
1850|Urveth (Nightcrawler)|An urveth is a massive, four-armed burrowing terror with a wormlike body and gaping maw that devours everything it can. Urveths burrow deep underground to hide from the sun, emerging under the cover of darkness to kill and consume.
2524|Katpaskir (Nihilism Demon)|Born of the souls of doomsayers and cult leaders who sought to undermine and unravel reality, katpaskirs are demons of nihilism and unmaking.
2530|Vincuvicar|Prison keepers among velstracs, vincuvicar velstracs thrive on depriving others of freedom.
2567|Vehanezhad|This creature did not include a description.
2571|Sonnorae|This creature did not include a description.
2582|Nornhound|While 
2614|Anemos|The truth of life in the 
2771|The Caterpillar Carriage|The haunted construct known as the caterpillar carriage is composed of armored segments that flow over one another as the carriage inches forward. It has two forelegs that dig grooves into the ground, making way for the many wheels situated along its underside.
3075|Kraken|A kraken is an enormous, squid-like leviathan with a cruel intelligence. It hunts ships, whales, and heroes alike. The hatred and envy krakens hold for 
3296|Mocking Chorus|Among the many unique creatures of the Inner Sea, the hydras known as mocking choruses that stalk the River Kingdoms may be one of the most reviled. While as ferocious in direct combat as others of their kind, chorusus are a singular type of challenge for warriors that hunt them due not to their sharp teeth, but instead a sharp and subtle tongue. Their strangely cunning tactics and power to turn longtime friends into bitter enemies brings doubt to even the closest of allies.
3300|Barded Manticore|Barded manticores are treacherous and dangerous beasts, and the only known member of the manticore species with the innate ability to cast spells. Luckily, these creatures are incredibly rare, mostly found near battlefields and other sources of worked metal, though stories tell of a particularly clever barded manticore attempting to make herself a home deep under the Magaambya.
2352|Kargstaad|This creature did not include a description.
2372|Phomandala|This creature did not include a description.
2419|Intellect Assemblage|Intellect assemblages are artificial constructs created from the memories of others. These memories are solidified into jagged shards similar in appearance to shattered glass and fused together in vaguely humanoid-shaped clusters to create the assemblage's body. The resulting construct is incredibly intelligent but completely devoid of emotion, possessing the thoughts and memories of a multitude but no personal connection to any of them. Analytical and meticulous, intellect assemblages view the world and everything in it as parts of a complex equation or system. They place no value on life or morality and consider emotions an illogical weakness.
1877|Runecarved Lich|In their relentless pursuit of more magical might, some liches use their rotting forms to hold magical secrets, hiding precious tomes in their ribcage, inscribing formulas on their withered flesh, even replacing some bones with powerful magical items. The process is painstaking, as the 
138|Ancient Red Dragon|The largest and most powerful of the chromatic dragons, red dragons are a menace to civilizations everywhere, and their strength is rivaled only by their arrogance. Red dragons see themselves as regents and overlords of all dragonkind. With their crowns of crimson spikes and their command of blistering frame, this is no haughty boast in their eyes—only unquestioned fact.
156|Ancient Silver Dragon|Silver dragons are among the most chivalrous of all dragonkind; they wield frost and cold as weapons, can walk on clouds, and dwell high upon snowy mountain peaks or deep in steep, misty valleys. Although they typically make their lairs among the highlands, the pursuit of justice leads silver dragons to travel far and wide—often into the very heart of realms overrun by evil. These exemplars of righteousness are ceaseless in their determination to help the weak, spread honor, and stamp out evil.
553|Star Archon|Embodiments of the virtue of prudence, star archons serve as philosophers and administrators, and in times of war as the tacticians, strategists, and generals of archon armies. Star archons burn with the glory and intensity of a sun, and their sense of duty and desire to defeat evil are as indefatigable as the light of the stars. While their dazzling intellects and unmatched strategic cunning make them most useful in war rooms rather than on battlefields, star archons are fierce opponents when motivated to enter the fray. Those who witness the self-sacrifice of a star archon and live to tell the tale describe the experience in terms that might befit the sight of a supernova at the instant the star collapses in on itself.
792|Sard|An immense, gnarled, tree awoken with raw, primal power by one of the fey Eldest of the First World, this monster—one of the legendary Tane—skitters on huge, spidery roots and thrashes its branches as fiery lightning courses within its blackened bark, a living manifestation of the violent clash between ancient forest and stormy sky.
1023|Nenchuuj|Nenchuujes embody the fear of magic corrupted, gone wrong, or spiraling out of control with unintended consequences. A nenchuuj's eyes are like divination pools, showing visions of all the ways various spells can fail, backfire, or warp. The smell of burnt flesh and ozone hangs heavy around them. When they speak, corrupted magical energy pours from their mouths. Regions recovering from tremendous magical fallout, or where many novices in magical studies gather, may draw large numbers of nenchuujes. They like to lure spellcasters close by affecting a fear of magic, often feigning piteous distress or recoiling from simple spells, only to turn more powerful effects against a spellcaster's allies and relish the horror this produces. Nenchuujes denounce the spellcasters for being at fault in harming these allies, stoking feelings of regret.
1410|Canopy Elder|In the densest and oldest jungles, arboreals can reach heights of 200 feet or more. Given thousands of undisturbed years, these massive creatures enter into a symbiotic relationship with a myriad of plants, fungi, and animals to achieve the esteemed status of canopy elder. They provide a safe home for the creatures they host and develop a variety of powers that help them defend their forest realms.
1519|Dancing Night Parade|This creature did not include a description.
1520|Laruhao|This creature did not include a description.
1593|Hermean Mutant|This creature did not include a description.
1643|Riekanoy|Riekanoys lurk in the placid rivers of the First World, demanding that travelers dance with them or face their wrath. Bitterly jealous of anyone that professes to be a better dancer, riekanoys make wagers in contests to prove who is the most graceful and sure-footed.
1673|Gluttonworm|Akiton's gluttonworms share many features of Golarion's 
1720|The King of Biting Ants, Megalomaniacal Sorcerer|Among the many evil forces that Old-Mage Jatembe faced to bring the world back into light, perhaps none was as insidious as the sorcerer known as the King of Biting Ants. This villain's original name is long lost; indeed, the wicked sorcerer claims it was the first thing he consumed when he transformed within a strange ruin deep in the Mwangi Expanse known today as the Cathedral of Nothingness. The King of Biting Ants sought to grasp power within the ruin, only to become corrupted in mind and transformed in body into a swarm of ants held together only by his prodigious will. In his time with a nihilistic cult, he learned the secret of the nearby Doorway to the Red Star—that it was a gateway to the distant planet of Akiton established by the hyper-intelligent but erratic creatures of that world called the 
1723|Desert's Howl|Desert's Howl is a towering, gray abomination with a shape vaguely similar to that of a bearded man with glowing yellow eyes, long ibex horns, deadly black claws, and cloven hooves. These features have sometimes caused those who encounter it to mistake it for some kind of 
1812|Wereant Sentinel|This creature did not include a description.
2577|Obcisidaemon (Obliteration Daemon)|Obcisidaemons (known to some as obliteration daemons) care only for the brutality and violence that conflict brings.
2590|Svarýr Commander|This creature did not include a description.
2354|Immense Mandragora|This creature did not include a description.
2413|Quantium Golem|The long war between Nex and Geb spawned many animate weapons, but while a citizen of Quantium might run screaming from any product of the fleshforges, they barely bat an eyelash at the ground-shaking stomp of the two titanic, deadly constructs that stride outside their city walls. Crafted by the wizard-king Nex ages ago after a devastating attack by Geb's undead forces, including the harrowing benthic reaver, the Quantium golems are meant to protect the capital in case of Nex's absence. These twin golems ceaselessly keep vigil over the city, ready to cut down any invaders that menace Quantium.
1875|Last Guard|Honor and broken oaths bind a last guard to a location they failed to defend in life. There they must keep watch until their duties are fulfilled or they are swayed by a compelling call to war, departing to march to battle.
2142|Kirosthrek|A cunning historian and summoner from a line of 
2208|Fetch Behemoth|A fetch behemoth is much larger than a stalker, and forms from the soul of a Large 
2216|Wild Hunt Monarch|Each wild hunt follows a wild hunt monarch, who travels between the realm of the fey and the 
40|Baomal|Few sea monsters are as dreaded and feared as the two-headed baomal. These massive predatory beasts typically dwell in the deepest waters and compete with krakens and other monsters for food. They feed on whales and other large sea creatures, sometimes following them to the water’s surface. Near the surface, baomals that encounter ships quickly learn that they contain a variety of tasty morsels. The creatures use their devastating spikes to rip open the ships’ hulls, then leisurely feed on the helpless sailors.
104|Balor (Fire Demon)|When folk whisper frightened tales of the demonic, what most envision is the balor—a towering figure of fire and flesh, a horned nightmare armed with a flaming whip and a sword flying through the night in search of its latest victim. On the Abyss, balors serve demon lords as generals or captains, and they typically command vast legions of demons. Standing at 14 feet in height, only the cruelest mortal souls—those who devoted entire lives to sins too numerous to count—can fuel the formation of a balor. More often, a balor forms from a mass of dozens of mortal souls who shared debased ideologies in life. 
153|Ancient Gold Dragon|Gold dragons are the epitome of metallic dragonkind, unrivaled in their strength as well as their wisdom. They command the unwavering reverence of all other metallic dragons, who view gold dragons as their leaders and counselors. Golds rival the raw power of even red dragons, much to the chagrin of their chromatic cousins, and the two races are often regarded as bitter rivals. But despite their incredible power, gold dragons are fond of discourse and prefer to talk through solutions to problems rather than rely upon brute strength. Long-lived as they are, they necessarily take a wide view of all situations and never act without considering all possible options and outcomes. Because of this, gold dragons willingly converse with any creature that seeks them out, even evil chromatic dragons. Mortals might find this behavior strange, considering the longstanding war between chromatic and metallic dragons, but dragons know all too well that desperate situations sometimes call for drastic alliances. And although gold dragons might consider brief truces with their chromatic brethren in the case of world-ending threats, they also know when such alliances have run their course.
491|Xotani, The Firebleeder|A monstrosity of living flame and magma, Xotani may be the weakest of Rovagug’s spawn, but it remains a formidable threat. Xotani was slain in 2104 AR by an alliance of spellcasters, but recently its deathlike slumber was interrupted. Its corpse twitches, signaling that it might be close to returning.
493|Vazgorlu|The arthropod monstrosity known as a vazgorlu makes its home on the Astral Plane or inside of a stable portal, ambushing creatures that travel there using dimensional magic.
597|Olethrodaemon (Apocalypse Daemon)|Even daemons fear the most massive and terrifying of their kind, olethrodaemons. No single entity could embody the level of evil necessary to manifest one; instead, these living war machines are made from the souls of many—or so the story goes. Other theories suggest that the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are responsible for creating the olethrodaemons, or that olethrodaemons are merely the seeping run-off of an even greater being: a mysterious fifth Horseman.
1008|Clockwork Amalgam|A clockwork amalgam is a powerful construct created by applying magic to a collection of interchangeable internal mechanisms. Each clockwork amalgam has unique properties, although most stand roughly 12 feet tall and have five clockwork appendages tipped with integrated weapons.
1020|Izfiitar|Occupying the pinnacle of the loose protean caste system, izfiitars enact the ever-shifting plans of the vaunted protean lords and those of the divine Speakers of the Depths. Izfiitars appear to be elevated versions of the protean priests known as 
1058|Draconal (Dragon Agathion)|Dragon agathions, known as draconals, number among the most powerful of their kin, and also the wisest, embodying the wisdom of the benevolent philosopher-king. With their wisdom comes an elevation above material matters, making them the most removed from the troubles and lives of mortals. Draconals serve as the guardians of powerful magic, and they dispense their wisdom in service of the greater good of 
1133|Ancient Sovereign Dragon|The most well-known of imperial dragons due to their deep involvement with mortals, the sovereign dragons' name comes from their mandate of selecting rulers—but at some point, the dragons themselves joined the list of worthy candidates. Other imperial dragons suspect the sovereign dragons offered their connection to the elemental cycle to attain forbidden magic, evidenced by their lack of any vulnerability to wood or ability to feed on fire, despite being creatures of the earth.
1272|Maharaja|The most powerful of all rakshasas, maharajas form very rarely, never more than once or twice a century, and only from the reincarnated spirits of other powerful and wicked rakshasas. The birth of a new maharaja rakshasa is a momentous occasion, and less powerful rakshasas will seek to curry favor with the new maharaja at an early age. Each maharaja rakshasa is unique and boasts their own selection of spells. All are generally humanoid save for their many heads, which always number at least four and can range up to a dozen. One of these heads tends to be humanoid, while the others take the forms of cats, snakes, and other predatory animals.
1419|Sthira|The Wall of Heaven claims many intrepid climbers. Some such travelers come seeking fortune. Others seek enlightenment. Many, however, find only an icy death. With no means for a proper burial, many of these unfortunate souls remain abandoned to the ice, their bodies becoming macabre guideposts along mountain trails.
1795|Clockwork Clock Tower|Clockworks are machines built by engineers and augmented with magic. A clock tower reconfigured as an animated clockwork can rotate slices of time.
1798|Slana|The rolling thunder before the rain provides the massive, leonine humanoids known as slanas with a tremendous power. These solitary and nomadic creatures primarily dwell in the jungles and savannas of the Mwangi Expanse, but they can range into nearby areas in search of prey or when drawn by strange primal forces only slanas can recognize. Slanas view each other as rivals who test each other's prowess, so when drawn together by this strange calling they nearly always fight to the death. A slana's roar echoes like thunder across the countryside, and denizens of the Mwangi fear a slana's approach whenever an oncoming storm's thunder seems more ferocious than its rain.
1834|Tatterthread, Evil Reflection of a Compassionate Norn |Born of Hlakana's shadow, Tatterthread is in many ways a reflection and an inversion of everything the norn represents. Jealousy and selfishness boil within Tatterthread as Hlakana's memories flicker in and out of her mind—experiences she never had but remembers as her own. Trapped on the Endless Table by her connection to the 
2586|Ildamir|This creature did not include a description.
2587|Bolti Sorrinson|This creature did not include a description.
2592|Speaker Of Svarýr|This creature did not include a description.
2769|The Great Flood|There are few creatures capable of such ecological destruction while staying as humorous and lighthearted as the Great Flood. The Great Flood towers with their giant serpent body and nine humanoid heads, each one with a different personality, though all serve the same purpose—to vanquish all signs of life that shouldn't be where they are. This creature intends to maintain the balance of the universe, ensuring that nothing takes up more space than necessary. Unfortunately, the judgment of where someone or something should be is only seen and weighed by the 18 eyes of the Great Flood, with little regard to mortal input.
2901|Vrolikai (Death Demon)|Powerful vrolikais command the untamed armies of demonkind, uniting them behind their one unifying desire for death and destruction. Unlike other demons, the dreaded vrolikai doesn't form directly from a single soul—they instead manifest when a demon devours so many damned souls that their own individual desires are lost in the sinful cacophony. A vrolikai who survives this process gains great power and can claim a region of the 
2911|Nessari (Tyrant Devil)|When an army of devils invades to bathe a region in bloodshed and hellfire, it is likely that one of the nessaris masterminded the incursion. Cunning, powerful, and ruthless, nessaris often serve the archdevils directly. They rule infernal duchies, subjugate mortal worlds, and usurp infernal rivals using unparalleled despotism and calculated ferocity. To realize their tyrannical machinations, nessaris claim mortal souls that they corrupt into ort servants, which can then be shaped and transformed through infernal manipulation into the terrifying devils that form 
3150|Yamaraj|The greatest judges among the psychopomps are yamarajes, whose wisdom is legendary and whose edicts are unappealable except to ushers or 
2350|Lesser Jabberwock|This creature did not include a description.
2361|Darvakka, Umbraex|An umbraex appears at first glance to be a massive, majestic bird, much like a 
2369|The Wriggling Man|This creature did not include a description.
2373|Werendegar|This creature did not include a description.
302|Mu Spore|A mu spore is a thankfully rare fungoid monstrosity of vast power and strange intellect. Even the smallest mu spores are never less than a hundred feet long from tentacle tip to tentacle tip, yet despite this vast bulk, they are capable of flying with an uncommon grace, venting jets of foul-smelling spores to guide their flight.
1015|Baatamidar|Baatamidars are drawn to destroy planar communities on the fringes where the Outer Planes touch the chaos of the 
1213|Krampus|Krampus is a tall, goatlike humanoid with a pointed nose, swept-back horns, and hooved feet. His long, greasy tongue continually flickers out from his mouth, occasionally licking droplets of spittle from his dark brown fur. He wields a set of iron chains that act as an extension of his will. Krampus is never seen without a wicker basket draped over one shoulder, its bottom often stained with the blood of his victims. Krampus stands a little over 14 feet tall and weighs nearly 1,000 pounds.
1256|Ouroboros|Ouroboros are the embodiment of eternity. Though they're prevalent as a symbol, often scrawled across the margins of alchemical tomes, few know that the beasts actually exist in the 
1415|Lophiithu|Lophiithus dwell in the deepest ocean trenches, places untouched by light, hope, or mortal comprehension. They appear to be gaping maws with distended jaws, vestigial flaps of putrefying flesh, and filamentous tentacles tipped with glowing light. Their extraplanar mouths take up most of their bodies, leaving no room for other organs, and any prey they swallow is transported to the 
1730|Kothogaz, Dance Of Disharmony|Kothogaz is a towering horror of claws and eyes, surrounded by swarming insects.
1811|Ironclad Annihilator Beetle|This creature did not include a description.
2588|The Keeper|This creature did not include a description.
3086|Tor Linnorm|Tor linnorms dwell in the tallest volcanic mountains, either within naturally formed caverns or molten craters. A tor linnorm's temper can be as hot and destructive as the magma the creature resembles.
2143|Sarvel Ever-Hunger|The fiendish 
1021|Rhevanna|Rhevannas are hunters, binders, and devourers of 
3325|Warden of Caverns and Burrows|Recall Knowledge - Beast
3327|Warden of Ocean and Rivers|Recall Knowledge - Beast
3328|Warden of Peaks and Skies|Recall Knowledge - Beast
545|Solar (Archangel)|Solars are among the greatest of all angels, ranking just below empyreal lords. Many solars serve at the right hand of a deity or champion a cause that benefits an entire world. Most archangels resemble humanoids, but not all—they can adopt more unusual forms as needed. A typical solar is about 9 feet tall and weighs about 500 pounds, with a commanding voice that is impossible to ignore. Most have silvery or golden skin.
652|Jabberwock|Few beasts have inspired as many legends, poems, songs, and myths in as many cultures, as this bizarre draconic creature. The jabberwock hails from the fey realm of the First World and is part of a group of powerful 
1341|Danava Titan|Danava titans once regulated the foundational forces that shaped reality. Rebuked by the gods for being harsh and inflexible overseers, these spurned titans joined their siblings in their failed war against their creators. Defeated, the danavas were cast into the paralyzing depths of the cosmos's seas. The few danava titans who have escaped now wield the cold, darkness, and crushing pressure of their prisons in pursuit of their ancient visions of reality. Danavas split mountains, wake primordial beasts, or level whole civilizations in accordance with grand designs they forged at the dawn of time. Others hunt and harvest the balance-enforcing aeons, who they see as usurpers of their divine responsibility.
2630|Vault Builder|Vault builders still possess the full power 
2196|The Lantern King|The Lantern King
1176|Green Man|Green men are ancient, enigmatic lesser deities of the primeval forests, living embodiments of nature and plantkind. When a forest or other woodland terrain generates enough nature spirits, beings of the same sort of vital essence that embodies 
1342|Hekatonkheires Titan|The first three hekatonkheires were meant to guard the gates to the 
1596|Manifestation Of Dahak|This creature did not include a description.
490|Tarrasque, The Armageddon Engine|The most powerful spawn is Tarrasque, whose legend spread across countless worlds beyond Golarion. Its destruction of the nation of Ninshabur and its march across Avistan in –632 AR culminated in the destruction of the flying Shory city of Kho before this spawn was sealed away in a remote cavern.
1708|Dimari-Diji, Ancient Arboreal Guardian|While Dimari-Diji's oldest memory is of the sky growing dark and becoming filled with fire, he was already several centuries old during the events of Earthfall. Memories of his earliest days no longer cling to his mind, and Dimari-Diji knows only that he is the youngest 
